Alexander went back to Bedford Square a second Sunday afternoon. He had
a long talk with MacConnell, but he got no word with Hilda alone, and
he left in a discontented state of mind. For the rest of the week he was
nervous and unsettled, and kept rushing his work as if he were preparing
for immediate departure. On Thursday afternoon he cut short a committee
meeting, jumped into a hansom, and drove to Bedford Square. He sent up
his card, but it came back to him with a message scribbled across the
front.
     So sorry I can't see you.  Will you come and
     dine with me Sunday evening at half-past seven?
     H.B.
When Bartley arrived at Bedford Square on Sunday evening, Marie,
the pretty little French girl, met him at the door and conducted him
upstairs. Hilda was writing in her living-room, under the light of a
tall desk lamp. Bartley recognized the primrose satin gown she had worn
that first evening at Lady Walford's.
"I'm so pleased that you think me worth that yellow dress, you know," he
said, taking her hand and looking her over admiringly from the toes of
her canary slippers to her smoothly parted brown hair. "Yes, it's very,
very pretty. Every one at Lady Walford's was looking at it."
Hilda curtsied. "Is that why you think it pretty? I've no need for
fine clothes in Mac's play this time, so I can afford a few duddies for
myself. It's owing to that same chance, by the way, that I am able to
ask you to dinner. I don't need Marie to dress me this season, so she
keeps house for me, and my little Galway girl has gone home for a visit.
I should never have asked you if Molly had been here, for I remember you
don't like English cookery."
Alexander walked about the room, looking at everything.
"I haven't had a chance yet to tell you what a jolly little place I
think this is. Where did you get those etchings? They're quite unusual,
aren't they?"
"Lady Westmere sent them to me from Rome last Christmas. She is very
much interested in the American artist who did them. They are all
sketches made about the Villa d'Este, you see. He painted that group of
cypresses for the Salon, and it was bought for the Luxembourg."
Alexander walked over to the bookcases. "It's the air of the whole place
here that I like. You haven't got anything that doesn't belong. Seems to
me it looks particularly well to-night. And you have so many flowers. I
like these little yellow irises."
"Rooms always look better by lamplight--in London, at least. Though
Marie is clean--really clean, as the French are. Why do you look at the
flowers so critically? Marie got them all fresh in Covent Garden market
yesterday morning."
"I'm glad," said Alexander simply. "I can't tell you how glad I am to
have you so pretty and comfortable here, and to hear every one saying
such nice things about you. You've got awfully nice friends," he added
humbly, picking up a little jade elephant from her desk. "Those fellows
are all very loyal, even Mainhall. They don't talk of any one else as
they do of you."
