On New Year's day a thaw set in, and during the night torrents of rain
fell. In the morning, the morning of Alexander's departure for England,
the river was streaked with fog and the rain drove hard against the
windows of the breakfast-room. Alexander had finished his coffee and
was pacing up and down. His wife sat at the table, watching him. She was
pale and unnaturally calm. When Thomas brought the letters, Bartley sank
into his chair and ran them over rapidly.
"Here's a note from old Wilson. He's safe back at his grind, and says he
had a bully time. `The memory of Mrs. Bartley will make my whole winter
fragrant.' Just like him. He will go on getting measureless satisfaction
out of you by his study fire. What a man he is for looking on at life!"
Bartley sighed, pushed the letters back impatiently, and went over to
the window. "This is a nasty sort of day to sail. I've a notion to call
it off. Next week would be time enough."
"That would only mean starting twice. It wouldn't really help you out at
all," Mrs. Alexander spoke soothingly. "And you'd come back late for all
your engagements."
Bartley began jingling some loose coins in his pocket. "I wish things
would let me rest. I'm tired of work, tired of people, tired of trailing
about." He looked out at the storm-beaten river.
Winifred came up behind him and put a hand on his shoulder. "That's
what you always say, poor Bartley! At bottom you really like all these
things. Can't you remember that?"
He put his arm about her. "All the same, life runs smoothly enough with
some people, and with me it's always a messy sort of patchwork. It's
like the song; peace is where I am not. How can you face it all with so
much fortitude?"
She looked at him with that clear gaze which Wilson had so much admired,
which he had felt implied such high confidence and fearless pride. "Oh,
I faced that long ago, when you were on your first bridge, up at old
Allway. I knew then that your paths were not to be paths of peace, but I
decided that I wanted to follow them."
Bartley and his wife stood silent for a long time; the fire crackled in
the grate, the rain beat insistently upon the windows, and the sleepy
Angora looked up at them curiously.
Presently Thomas made a discreet sound at the door. "Shall Edward bring
down your trunks, sir?"
"Yes; they are ready. Tell him not to forget the big portfolio on the
study table."
Thomas withdrew, closing the door softly. Bartley turned away from his
wife, still holding her hand. "It never gets any easier, Winifred."
They both started at the sound of the carriage on the pavement outside.
Alexander sat down and leaned his head on his hand. His wife bent over
him. "Courage," she said gayly. Bartley rose and rang the bell. Thomas
brought him his hat and stick and ulster. At the sight of these, the
supercilious Angora moved restlessly, quitted her red cushion by
the fire, and came up, waving her tail in vexation at these ominous
indications of change. Alexander stooped to stroke her, and then plunged
into his coat and drew on his gloves. His wife held his stick, smiling.
Bartley smiled too, and his eyes cleared. "I'll work like the devil,
Winifred, and be home again before you realize I've gone." He kissed her
quickly several times, hurried out of the front door into the rain, and
waved to her from the carriage window as the driver was starting his
melancholy, dripping black horses. Alexander sat with his hands clenched
on his knees. As the carriage turned up the hill, he lifted one hand and
brought it down violently. "This time"--he spoke aloud and through his
set teeth--"this time I'm going to end it!"
