One afternoon, late in the summer, Dr. Howard Archie was fighting his
way back to town along this walk through a blinding sandstorm, a silk
handkerchief tied over his mouth. He had been to see a sick woman down
in the depot settlement, and he was walking because his ponies had been
out for a hard drive that morning.
As he passed the Catholic Church he came upon Thea and Thor. Thea was
sitting in a child's express wagon, her feet out behind, kicking the
wagon along and steering by the tongue. Thor was on her lap and she held
him with one arm. He had grown to be a big cub of a baby, with a
constitutional grievance, and he had to be continually amused. Thea took
him philosophically, and tugged and pulled him about, getting as much
fun as she could under her encumbrance. Her hair was blowing about her
face, and her eyes were squinting so intently at the uneven board
sidewalk in front of her that she did not see the doctor until he spoke
to her.
"Look out, Thea. You'll steer that youngster into the ditch."
The wagon stopped. Thea released the tongue, wiped her hot, sandy face,
and pushed back her hair. "Oh, no, I won't! I never ran off but once,
and then he didn't get anything but a bump. He likes this better than a
baby buggy, and so do I."
"Are you going to kick that cart all the way home?"
"Of course. We take long trips; wherever there is a sidewalk. It's no
good on the road."
"Looks to me like working pretty hard for your fun. Are you going to be
busy to-night? Want to make a call with me? Spanish Johnny's come home
again, all used up. His wife sent me word this morning, and I said I'd
go over to see him to-night. He's an old chum of yours, isn't he?"
"Oh, I'm glad. She's been crying her eyes out. When did he come?"
"Last night, on Number Six. Paid his fare, they tell me. Too sick to
beat it. There'll come a time when that boy won't get back, I'm afraid.
Come around to my office about eight o'clock,--and you needn't bring
that!"
Thor seemed to understand that he had been insulted, for he scowled and
began to kick the side of the wagon, shouting, "Go-go, go-go!" Thea
leaned forward and grabbed the wagon tongue. Dr. Archie stepped in front
of her and blocked the way. "Why don't you make him wait? What do you
let him boss you like that for?"
"If he gets mad he throws himself, and then I can't do anything with
him. When he's mad he's lots stronger than me, aren't you, Thor?" Thea
spoke with pride, and the idol was appeased. He grunted approvingly as
his sister began to kick rapidly behind her, and the wagon rattled off
and soon disappeared in the flying currents of sand.
That evening Dr. Archie was seated in his office, his desk chair tilted
back, reading by the light of a hot coal-oil lamp. All the windows were
open, but the night was breathless after the sandstorm, and his hair was
moist where it hung over his forehead. He was deeply engrossed in his
book and sometimes smiled thoughtfully as he read. When Thea Kronborg
entered quietly and slipped into a seat, he nodded, finished his
paragraph, inserted a bookmark, and rose to put the book back into the
case. It was one out of the long row of uniform volumes on the top
shelf.
