Ah!  We must all die!  In the course of years, VORTIGERN died--he was
dethroned, and put in prison, first, I am afraid; and ROWENA died; and
generations of Saxons and Britons died; and events that happened during a
long, long time, would have been quite forgotten but for the tales and
songs of the old Bards, who used to go about from feast to feast, with
their white beards, recounting the deeds of their forefathers.  Among the
histories of which they sang and talked, there was a famous one,
concerning the bravery and virtues of KING ARTHUR, supposed to have been
a British Prince in those old times.  But, whether such a person really
lived, or whether there were several persons whose histories came to be
confused together under that one name, or whether all about him was
invention, no one knows.
I will tell you, shortly, what is most interesting in the early Saxon
times, as they are described in these songs and stories of the Bards.
In, and long after, the days of VORTIGERN, fresh bodies of Saxons, under
various chiefs, came pouring into Britain.  One body, conquering the
Britons in the East, and settling there, called their kingdom Essex;
another body settled in the West, and called their kingdom Wessex; the
Northfolk, or Norfolk people, established themselves in one place; the
Southfolk, or Suffolk people, established themselves in another; and
gradually seven kingdoms or states arose in England, which were called
the Saxon Heptarchy.  The poor Britons, falling back before these crowds
of fighting men whom they had innocently invited over as friends, retired
into Wales and the adjacent country; into Devonshire, and into Cornwall.
Those parts of England long remained unconquered.  And in Cornwall
now--where the sea-coast is very gloomy, steep, and rugged--where, in the
dark winter-time, ships have often been wrecked close to the land, and
every soul on board has perished--where the winds and waves howl drearily
and split the solid rocks into arches and caverns--there are very ancient
ruins, which the people call the ruins of KING ARTHUR'S Castle.
Kent is the most famous of the seven Saxon kingdoms, because the
Christian religion was preached to the Saxons there (who domineered over
the Britons too much, to care for what _they_ said about their religion,
or anything else) by AUGUSTINE, a monk from Rome.  KING ETHELBERT, of
Kent, was soon converted; and the moment he said he was a Christian, his
courtiers all said _they_ were Christians; after which, ten thousand of
his subjects said they were Christians too.  AUGUSTINE built a little
church, close to this King's palace, on the ground now occupied by the
beautiful cathedral of Canterbury.  SEBERT, the King's nephew, built on a
muddy marshy place near London, where there had been a temple to Apollo,
a church dedicated to Saint Peter, which is now Westminster Abbey.  And,
in London itself, on the foundation of a temple to Diana, he built
another little church which has risen up, since that old time, to be
Saint Paul's.
