The old Earl Godwin did not long enjoy his restored fortune.  He fell
down in a fit at the King's table, and died upon the third day
afterwards.  Harold succeeded to his power, and to a far higher place in
the attachment of the people than his father had ever held.  By his
valour he subdued the King's enemies in many bloody fights.  He was
vigorous against rebels in Scotland--this was the time when Macbeth slew
Duncan, upon which event our English Shakespeare, hundreds of years
afterwards, wrote his great tragedy; and he killed the restless Welsh
King GRIFFITH, and brought his head to England.
What Harold was doing at sea, when he was driven on the French coast by a
tempest, is not at all certain; nor does it at all matter.  That his ship
was forced by a storm on that shore, and that he was taken prisoner,
there is no doubt.  In those barbarous days, all shipwrecked strangers
were taken prisoners, and obliged to pay ransom.  So, a certain Count
Guy, who was the Lord of Ponthieu where Harold's disaster happened,
seized him, instead of relieving him like a hospitable and Christian lord
as he ought to have done, and expected to make a very good thing of it.
But Harold sent off immediately to Duke William of Normandy, complaining
of this treatment; and the Duke no sooner heard of it than he ordered
Harold to be escorted to the ancient town of Rouen, where he then was,
and where he received him as an honoured guest.  Now, some writers tell
us that Edward the Confessor, who was by this time old and had no
children, had made a will, appointing Duke William of Normandy his
successor, and had informed the Duke of his having done so.  There is no
doubt that he was anxious about his successor; because he had even
invited over, from abroad, EDWARD THE OUTLAW, a son of Ironside, who had
come to England with his wife and three children, but whom the King had
strangely refused to see when he did come, and who had died in London
suddenly (princes were terribly liable to sudden death in those days),
and had been buried in St. Paul's Cathedral.  The King might possibly
have made such a will; or, having always been fond of the Normans, he
might have encouraged Norman William to aspire to the English crown, by
something that he said to him when he was staying at the English court.
But, certainly William did now aspire to it; and knowing that Harold
would be a powerful rival, he called together a great assembly of his
nobles, offered Harold his daughter ADELE in marriage, informed him that
he meant on King Edward's death to claim the English crown as his own
inheritance, and required Harold then and there to swear to aid him.
Harold, being in the Duke's power, took this oath upon the Missal, or
Prayer-book.  It is a good example of the superstitions of the monks,
that this Missal, instead of being placed upon a table, was placed upon a
tub; which, when Harold had sworn, was uncovered, and shown to be full of
dead men's bones--bones, as the monks pretended, of saints.  This was
supposed to make Harold's oath a great deal more impressive and binding.
As if the great name of the Creator of Heaven and earth could be made
more solemn by a knuckle-bone, or a double-tooth, or a finger-nail, of
Dunstan!
