Some of the Folk-poems in this book have all the lightness and loveliness
of lyrics, all of them have that sweet simplicity of pure song by which
mirth finds its own melody and mourning its own music, and even where
there are conceits of thought and expression they are conceits born of
fancy not of affectation.  Herrick himself might have envied that
wonderful love-song of Provence:
    If thou wilt be the falling dew
       And fall on me alway,
    Then I will be the white, white rose
       On yonder thorny spray.
    If thou wilt be the white, white rose
       On yonder thorny spray,
    Then I will be the honey-bee
       And kiss thee all the day.
    If thou wilt be the honey-bee
       And kiss me all the day,
    Then I will be in yonder heaven
       The star of brightest ray.
    If thou wilt be in yonder heaven
       The star of brightest ray,
    Then I will be the dawn, and we
       Shall meet at break of day.
How charming also is this lullaby by which the Corsican mother sings her
babe to sleep!
    Gold and pearls my vessel lade,
       Silk and cloth the cargo be,
    All the sails are of brocade
       Coming from beyond the sea;
    And the helm of finest gold,
    Made a wonder to behold.
       Fast awhile in slumber lie;
       Sleep, my child, and hushaby.
    After you were born full soon,
       You were christened all aright;
    Godmother she was the moon,
       Godfather the sun so bright.
    All the stars in heaven told
    Wore their necklaces of gold.
       Fast awhile in slumber lie;
       Sleep, my child, and hushaby.
Or this from Roumania:
    Sleep, my daughter, sleep an hour;
    Mother's darling gilliflower.
    Mother rocks thee, standing near,
    She will wash thee in the clear
    Waters that from fountains run,
    To protect thee from the sun.
    Sleep, my darling, sleep an hour,
    Grow thou as the gilliflower.
    As a tear-drop be thou white,
    As a willow tall and slight;
    Gentle as the ring-doves are,
    And be lovely as a star!
We hardly know what poems are sung to English babies, but we hope they
are as beautiful as these two.  Blake might have written them.
The Countess Martinengo has certainly given us a most fascinating book.
In a volume of moderate dimensions, not too long to be tiresome nor too
brief to be disappointing, she has collected together the best examples
of modern Folk-songs, and with her as a guide the lazy reader lounging in
his armchair may wander from the melancholy pine-forests of the North to
Sicily's orange-groves and the pomegranate gardens of Armenia, and listen
to the singing of those to whom poetry is a passion, not a profession,
and whose art, coming from inspiration and not from schools, if it has
the limitations, at least has also the loveliness of its origin, and is
one with blowing grasses and the flowers of the field.
_Essays in the Study of Folk-Songs_.  By the Countess Evelyn Martinengo
Cesaresco.  (Redway.)
_THE CENCI_
(_Dramatic Review_, May 15, 1886.)
