His hair was chestnut-brown, glinting in the candle-light to gold, and
the hint of waviness in it explained the perceptible droop to his tawny
moustache.  For the rest, his face was clean-shaven and cut on a good
masculine pattern.  At first she found fault with the more than slight
cheek-hollows under the cheek-bones, but when she measured his
well-knit, slenderly muscular figure, with its deep chest and heavy
shoulders, she discovered that she preferred the hollows; at least they
did not imply lack of nutrition.  The body gave the lie to that; while
they themselves denied the vice of over-feeding.  Height, five feet,
nine, she summed up from out of her gymnasium experience; and age
anywhere between twenty-five and thirty, though nearer the former most
likely.
"Haven't many blankets," he said abruptly, pausing to drain his cup and
set it over on the grub-box.  "I don't expect my Indians back from Lake
Linderman till morning, and the beggars have packed over everything
except a few sacks of flour and the bare camp outfit.  However, I've a
couple of heavy ulsters which will serve just as well."
He turned his back, as though he did not expect a reply, and untied a
rubber-covered roll of blankets.  Then he drew the two ulsters from a
clothes-bag and threw them down on the bedding.
"Vaudeville artist, I suppose?"
He asked the question seemingly without interest, as though to keep the
conversation going, and, in fact, as if he knew the stereotyped answer
beforehand.  But to Frona the question was like a blow in the face.
She remembered Neepoosa's philippic against the white women who were
coming into the land, and realized the falseness of her position and
the way in which he looked upon her.
But he went on before she could speak.  "Last night I had two
vaudeville queens, and three the night before.  Only there was more
bedding then.  It's unfortunate, isn't it, the aptitude they display in
getting lost from their outfits?  Yet somehow I have failed to find any
lost outfits so far.  And they are all queens, it seems.  No
under-studies or minor turns about them,--no, no.  And I presume you
are a queen, too?"
The too-ready blood sprayed her cheek, and this made her angrier than
did he; for whereas she was sure of the steady grip she had on herself,
her flushed face betokened a confusion which did not really possess her.
"No," she answered, coolly; "I am not a vaudeville artist."
He tossed several sacks of flour to one side of the stove, without
replying, and made of them the foundation of a bed; and with the
remaining sacks he duplicated the operation on the opposite side of the
stove.
"But you are some kind of an artist, then," he insisted when he had
finished, with an open contempt on the "artist."
"Unfortunately, I am not any kind of an artist at all."
He dropped the blanket he was folding and straightened his back.
Hitherto he had no more than glanced at her; but now he scrutinized her
carefully, every inch of her, from head to heel and back again, the cut
of her garments and the very way she did her hair.  And he took his
time about it.
