A year ago the sisters had been the petted daughters of a rich man;
but death and misfortune came suddenly, and now they were left to
face poverty alone. They had few relations, and had offended the
rich uncle who offered Jessie a home, because she refused to be
separated from her sister. Poor Laura was an invalid, and no one
wanted her; but Jessie would not leave her, so they clung together
and lived on in the humble rooms where their father died, trying to
earn their bread by the only accomplishments they possessed. Laura
painted well, and after many disappointments was beginning to find a
sale for her dainty designs and delicate flowers. Jessie had a
natural gift for dancing; and her former teacher, a kind-hearted
Frenchwoman, offered her favorite pupil the post of assistant
teacher in her classes for children.
It cost the girl a struggle to accept a place of this sort and be a
humble teacher, patiently twirling stupid little boys and girls
round and round over the smooth floor where she used to dance so
happily when she was the pride of the class and the queen of the
closing balls. But for Laura's sake she gratefully accepted the
offer, glad to add her mite to their small store, and to feel that
she could help keep the wolf from the door. They had seemed to hear
the howl of this dreaded phantom more than once during that year,
and looked forward to the long hard winter with an anxiety which
neither would confess to the other. Laura feared to fall ill if she
worked too hard, and then what would become of this pretty young
sister who loved her so tenderly and would not be tempted to leave
her? And Jessie could do very little except rebel against their hard
fate and make impracticable plans. But each worked bravely, talked
cheerfully, and waited hopefully for some good fortune to befall
them, while doubt and pain and poverty and care made the young
hearts so heavy that the poor girls often fell asleep on pillows wet
with secret tears.
The smaller trials of life beset Jessie at this particular moment,
and her bright wits were trying to solve the problem how to spend
her treasured five dollars on slippers for herself and paints for
Laura. Both were much needed, and she had gone in shabby shoes to
save up money for the little surprise on which she had set her
heart; but now dismay fell upon her when the holes refused to be
cobbled, and the largest of bows would not hide the worn-out toes in
spite of ink and blacking lavishly applied.
"These are the last of my dear French slippers, and I can't afford
any more. I hate cheap things! But I shall have to get them; for my
boots are shabby, and every one has to look at my feet when I lead.
Oh dear, what a horrid thing it is to be poor!" and Jessie surveyed
the shabby little shoes affectionately, as her eyes filled with
tears; for the road looked very rough and steep now, when she
remembered how she used to dance through life as happy as a
butterfly in a garden full of sunshine and flowers.
