Ella stopped to give a regretful sigh over her past blindness, while
her hearers made a sympathetic murmur; for young hearts are very
tender, and take an innocent interest in lovers' sorrows, no matter
how humble.
"Well, that was the beginning of it. I got so absorbed in making
things go well that I didn't look any further, but just 'buckled to'
with Miss Miller and helped run that little shop. No one knew me in
that street, so I slipped in and out, and did what I liked. The old
lady and I got to be great friends; though she often pecked and
croaked like a cross raven, and was very wearing. I kept her busy
with her 'pin-balls and knittin'-work, and supplied Almiry with
pretty materials for the various things I found she could make. You
wouldn't believe what dainty bows those long fingers could tie, what
ravishing doll's hats she would make out of a scrap of silk and
lace, or the ingenious things she concocted with cones and shells
and fans and baskets. I love such work, and used to go and help her
often, for I wanted her window and shop to be full for Christmas,
and lure in plenty of customers. Our new toys and the little cases
of sewing silk sold well, and people began to come more, after I
lent Almiry some money to lay in a stock of better goods. Papa
enjoyed my business venture immensely, and was never tired of joking
about it. He actually went and bought balls for four small black
boys who were gluing their noses to the window one day, spellbound
by the orange, red, and blue treasures displayed there. He liked my
partner's looks, though he teased me by saying that we'd better add
lemonade to our stock, as poor, dear Almiry's acid face would make
lemons unnecessary, and sugar and water were cheap.
"Well, Christmas came, and we did a great business, for Mamma came
and sent others, and our fancy things were as pretty and cheaper
than those at the art stores, so they went well, and the Millers
were cheered up, and I felt encouraged, and we took a fresh start
after the holidays. One of my gifts at New Year was my own
glove-case,--you remember the apple-blossom thing I began last
autumn? I put it in our window to fill up, and Mamma bought it, and
gave it to me full of elegant gloves, with a sweet note, and Papa
sent a check to 'Miller, Warren & Co.' I was so pleased and proud I
could hardly help telling you all. But the best joke was the day you
girls came in and bought our goods, and I peeped at you through the
crack of the door, being in the back room dying with laughter to see
you look round, and praise our 'nice assortment of useful and pretty
articles.'"
"That's all very well, and we can bear to be laughed at if you
succeeded, Miss. But I don't believe you did, for no Millers are
there now. Have you taken a palatial store on Boylston Street for
this year, intending to run it alone? We'll all patronize it, and
your name will look well on a sign," said Maggie, wondering what the
end of Ella's experience had been.
