"I was called upstairs while he was mumbling his food, and blessing
me in the most lovely manner; and he went away much comforted, I
flattered myself. But an hour later, up came the cook in a great
panic to report that my venerable and pious beggar had carried off
several of Papa's shirts and pairs of socks out of the clothes-basket
in the laundry, and the nice warm hood we keep for the girl to hang
out clothes in.
"I was VERY angry, and, taking Harry with me, went at once to the
address the old rascal gave me, a dirty court out of Hanover Street
No such person had ever lived there, and my white-haired saint was a
humbug. Harry laughed at me, and Mamma forbade me to bring any more
thieves to the house, and the girls scolded awfully.
"Well, I recovered from the shock, and, nothing daunted, went off to
the little Irishwoman who sells apples on the Common,--not the fat,
tosey one with the stall near West Street, but the dried-up one who
sits by the path, nodding over an old basket with six apples and
four sticks of candy in it. No one ever seems to buy anything, but
she sits there and trusts to kind souls dropping a dime now and
then; she looks so feeble and forlorn, 'on the cold, cold ground.'
"She told me another sad tale of being all alone and unable to work,
and 'as wake as wather-grewl, without a hap-worth av flesh upon me
bones, and for the love of Heaven gimme a thrifle to kape the breath
av loife in a poor soul, with a bitter hard winter over me, and
niver a chick or child to do a hand's turn.' I hadn't much faith in
her, remembering my other humbug, but I did pity the old mummy; so I
got some tea and sugar, and a shawl, and used to give her my odd
pennies as I passed. I never told at home, they made such fun of my
efforts to be charitable. I thought I really was getting on pretty
well after a time, as my old Biddy seemed quite cheered up, and I
was planning to give her some coal, when she disappeared all of a
sudden. I feared she was ill, and asked Mrs. Maloney, the fat woman,
about her.
"'Lord love ye, Miss dear, it's tuk up and sint to the Island for
tree months she is; for a drunken ould crayther is Biddy Ryan, and
niver a cint but goes for whiskey,--more shame to her, wid a fine
bye av her own ready to kape her daycint.'
"Then I WAS discouraged, and went home to fold my hands, and see
what fate would send me, my own efforts being such failures."
"Poor thing, it WAS hard luck!" said Elizabeth, as they sobered down
after the gale of merriment caused by Marion's mishaps, and her
clever imitation of the brogue.
"Now tell of your success, and the scarlet runner," added Maggie.
