Examiners to be appointed in every Parish.
'First, it is thought requisite, and so ordered, that in every parish
there be one, two, or more persons of good sort and credit chosen and
appointed by the alderman, his deputy, and common council of every ward,
by the name of examiners, to continue in that office the space of two
months at least. And if any fit person so appointed shall refuse to
undertake the same, the said parties so refusing to be committed to
prison until they shall conform themselves accordingly.
The Examiner's Office.
'That these examiners be sworn by the aldermen to inquire and learn from
time to time what houses in every parish be visited, and what persons be
sick, and of what diseases, as near as they can inform themselves; and
upon doubt in that case, to command restraint of access until it appear
what the disease shall prove. And if they find any person sick of the
infection, to give order to the constable that the house be shut up; and
if the constable shall be found remiss or negligent, to give present
notice thereof to the alderman of the ward.
Watchmen.
'That to every infected house there be appointed two watchmen, one for
every day, and the other for the night; and that these watchmen have a
special care that no person go in or out of such infected houses whereof
they have the charge, upon pain of severe punishment. And the said
watchmen to do such further offices as the sick house shall need and
require: and if the watchman be sent upon any business, to lock up the
house and take the key with him; and the watchman by day to attend until
ten of the clock at night, and the watchman by night until six in the
morning.
Searchers.
'That there be a special care to appoint women searchers in every
parish, such as are of honest reputation, and of the best sort as can be
got in this kind; and these to be sworn to make due search and true
report to the utmost of their knowledge whether the persons whose bodies
they are appointed to search do die of the infection, or of what other
diseases, as near as they can. And that the physicians who shall be
appointed for cure and prevention of the infection do call before them
the said searchers who are, or shall be, appointed for the several
parishes under their respective cares, to the end they may consider
whether they are fitly qualified for that employment, and charge them
from time to time as they shall see cause, if they appear defective in
their duties.
'That no searcher during this time of visitation be permitted to use any
public work or employment, or keep any shop or stall, or be employed as
a laundress, or in any other common employment whatsoever.
Chirurgeons.
'For better assistance of the searchers, forasmuch as there hath been
heretofore great abuse in misreporting the disease, to the further
spreading of the infection, it is therefore ordered that there be chosen
and appointed able and discreet chirurgeons, besides those that do
already belong to the pest-house, amongst whom the city and Liberties to
be quartered as the places lie most apt and convenient; and every of
these to have one quarter for his limit; and the said chirurgeons in
every of their limits to join with the searchers for the view of the
body, to the end there may be a true report made of the disease.
