This direction of the physicians was done by a consultation of the whole
College; and, as it was particularly calculated for the use of the poor
and for cheap medicines, it was made public, so that everybody might see
it, and copies were given gratis to all that desired it. But as it is
public, and to be seen on all occasions, I need not give the reader of
this the trouble of it.
I shall not be supposed to lessen the authority or capacity of the
physicians when I say that the violence of the distemper, when it came
to its extremity, was like the fire the next year. The fire, which
consumed what the plague could not touch, defied all the application of
remedies; the fire-engines were broken, the buckets thrown away, and the
power of man was baffled and brought to an end. So the Plague defied all
medicines; the very physicians were seized with it, with their
preservatives in their mouths; and men went about prescribing to others
and telling them what to do till the tokens were upon them, and they
dropped down dead, destroyed by that very enemy they directed others to
oppose. This was the case of several physicians, even some of them the
most eminent, and of several of the most skilful surgeons. Abundance of
quacks too died, who had the folly to trust to their own medicines,
which they must needs be conscious to themselves were good for nothing,
and who rather ought, like other sorts of thieves, to have run away,
sensible of their guilt, from the justice that they could not but expect
should punish them as they knew they had deserved.
Not that it is any derogation from the labour or application of the
physicians to say they fell in the common calamity; nor is it so
intended by me; it rather is to their praise that they ventured their
lives so far as even to lose them in the service of mankind. They
endeavoured to do good, and to save the lives of others. But we were not
to expect that the physicians could stop God's judgements, or prevent a
distemper eminently armed from heaven from executing the errand it was
sent about.
Doubtless, the physicians assisted many by their skill, and by their
prudence and applications, to the saving of their lives and restoring
their health. But it is not lessening their character or their skill, to
say they could not cure those that had the tokens upon them, or those
who were mortally infected before the physicians were sent for, as was
frequently the case.
It remains to mention now what public measures were taken by the
magistrates for the general safety, and to prevent the spreading of the
distemper, when it first broke out. I shall have frequent occasion to
speak of the prudence of the magistrates, their charity, their vigilance
for the poor, and for preserving good order, furnishing provisions, and
the like, when the plague was increased, as it afterwards was. But I am
now upon the order and regulations they published for the government of
infected families.
