One mischief always introduces another. These terrors and apprehensions
of the people led them into a thousand weak, foolish, and wicked things,
which they wanted not a sort of people really wicked to encourage them
to: and this was running about to fortune-tellers, cunning-men, and
astrologers to know their fortune, or, as it is vulgarly expressed, to
have their fortunes told them, their nativities calculated, and the
like; and this folly presently made the town swarm with a wicked
generation of pretenders to magic, to the black art, as they called it,
and I know not what; nay, to a thousand worse dealings with the devil
than they were really guilty of. And this trade grew so open and so
generally practised that it became common to have signs and inscriptions
set up at doors: 'Here lives a fortune-teller', 'Here lives an
astrologer', 'Here you may have your nativity calculated', and the like;
and Friar Bacon's brazen-head, which was the usual sign of these
people's dwellings, was to be seen almost in every street, or else the
sign of Mother Shipton, or of Merlin's head, and the like.
With what blind, absurd, and ridiculous stuff these oracles of the devil
pleased and satisfied the people I really know not, but certain it is
that innumerable attendants crowded about their doors every day. And if
but a grave fellow in a velvet jacket, a band, and a black coat, which
was the habit those quack-conjurers generally went in, was but seen in
the streets the people would follow them in crowds, and ask them
questions as they went along.
I need not mention what a horrid delusion this was, or what it tended
to; but there was no remedy for it till the plague itself put an end to
it all--and, I suppose, cleared the town of most of those calculators
themselves. One mischief was, that if the poor people asked these mock
astrologers whether there would be a plague or no, they all agreed in
general to answer 'Yes', for that kept up their trade. And had the
people not been kept in a fright about that, the wizards would presently
have been rendered useless, and their craft had been at an end. But they
always talked to them of such-and-such influences of the stars, of the
conjunctions of such-and-such planets, which must necessarily bring
sickness and distempers, and consequently the plague. And some had the
assurance to tell them the plague was begun already, which was too true,
though they that said so knew nothing of the matter.
The ministers, to do them justice, and preachers of most sorts that were
serious and understanding persons, thundered against these and other
wicked practices, and exposed the folly as well as the wickedness of
them together, and the most sober and judicious people despised and
abhorred them. But it was impossible to make any impression upon the
middling people and the working labouring poor. Their fears were
predominant over all their passions, and they threw away their money in
a most distracted manner upon those whimsies. Maid-servants especially,
and men-servants, were the chief of their customers, and their question
generally was, after the first demand of 'Will there be a plague?' I
say, the next question was, 'Oh, sir I for the Lord's sake, what will
become of me? Will my mistress keep me, or will she turn me off? Will
she stay here, or will she go into the country? And if she goes into the
country, will she take me with her, or leave me here to be starved and
undone?' And the like of menservants.
