As they came nearer and nearer to where I stood, I had an opportunity to
speak to them singly, which I did calmly and smilingly.
Why, how now, Tom, says I, to one of them; what are you among the
mutineers?
Lord, sir, says Tom, not I, they are mad, I think; I have nothing to say
to them; I care not where I go, not I; I will go round the globe with
you, it's all one to me.
Well, Tom, says I, but what do you do among them then? come away into
the steerage, and show yourself an honest man.
So Tom comes in, and after him another, and then two more. Upon my
saying to Tom, What do you do among them? one of the fellows says to one
of the officers that stood at a little distance from me, What does the
captain mean by saying, among them? What, does he reckon us to be in the
plot? He is quite wrong, we are all ignorant, and surprised at it. He
immediately tells me this, and I was glad, you may be sure, to hear it,
and said aloud to the man that he spoke to, If they are honest men, and
would not appear in this villany, let them go down between decks, and
get out of the way, that they may have no share in the punishment, if
they have none in the crime. With all my heart, says one; God bless you,
captain, says another, and away they dropt one by one in at the steerage
door, and down between decks, every one in his hammock or cabin, till
there were not above five or six of them left.
By this time, our two boats appeared from the shore, being both manned
with Dutchmen, viz. the Dutch captain's mate and about twenty of his
men, all the water casks full, but not a man of mine with them, for they
were left on shore in safe custody.
I waited till they came on board, and then turning to the men on the
forecastle, I told them they should go on board the boats immediately,
as soon as the butts of water were hoisted in. They still said, _One and
all_, they were ready, desired they might go and fetch their clothes.
No, no, says I, not a man of you shall set your foot any more into the
ship; but go get you into the boat, and what is your own shall be given
you into the boat.
As I spoke this in an angry tone, and with a kind of passion, that
bespoke resentment to a high degree, they began to see they had no
opportunity to choose; and some of them slipt down the scuttle into the
cook-room. I had ordered the officer who was there, who was one of the
midshipmen, to wink at it, and let as many come down as offered it; and
the honest man did more than that, for he went to the scuttle himself,
and, as if he had whispered, so that I should not hear him, called them
one by one by their names, and argued with them; Prithee, Jack, says he
to one of them, do not you be distracted, and ruin yourself to gratify a
rash drunken humour; if you go into the boat you are undone; you will be
seized as soon as you come on shore, as the rest are, and will be sent
to England in irons, and there you will be infallibly hanged; why you
are certainly all mad.
