And so, favoured child of the sun, out of munificence of energy and
sheer joy of living, he, the man of many millions, forbore on his far
way to play the game with Harrison J. Griffiths for a paltry sum. It was
his whim, his desire, his expression of self and of the sun-warmth that
poured through him. It was fun, a joke, a problem, a bit of play on
which life was lightly hazarded for the joy of the playing.
IV
The early morning found the _Wonder_ laying close-hauled along the coast
of Guadalcanal She moved lazily through the water under the dying breath
of the land breeze. To the east, heavy masses of clouds promised a
renewal of the southeast trades, accompanied by sharp puffs and rain
squalls. Ahead, laying along the coast on the same course as the
_Wonder_, and being slowly overtaken, was a small ketch. It was not the
_Willi-Waw_, however, and Captain Ward, on the _Wonder_, putting down
his glasses, named it the _Kauri_.
Grief, just on deck from below, sighed regretfully.
"If it had only been the _Willi-Waw_" he said.
"You do hate to be beaten," Denby, the supercargo, remarked
sympathetically.
"I certainly do." Grief paused and laughed with genuine mirth. "It's my
firm conviction that Griffiths is a rogue, and that he treated me quite
scurvily yesterday. 'Sign,' he says, 'sign in full, at the bottom, and
date it,' And Jacobsen, the little rat, stood in with him. It was rank
piracy, the days of Bully Hayes all over again."
"If you weren't my employer, Mr. Grief, I'd like to give you a piece of
my mind," Captain Ward broke in.
"Go on and spit it out," Grief encouraged.
"Well, then--" The captain hesitated and cleared his throat. "With all
the money you've got, only a fool would take the risk you did with those
two curs. What do you do it for?"
"Honestly, I don't know, Captain. I just want to, I suppose. And can you
give any better reason for anything you do?"
"You'll get your bally head shot off some fine day," Captain Ward
growled in answer, as he stepped to the binnacle and took the bearing
of a peak which had just thrust its head through the clouds that covered
Guadalcanar.
The land breeze strengthened in a last effort, and the _Wonder_,
slipping swiftly through the water, ranged alongside the _Kauri_ and
began to go by. Greetings flew back and forth, then David Grief called
out:
"Seen anything of the _Willi-Waw_?"
The captain, slouch-hatted and barelegged, with a rolling twist hitched
the faded blue _lava-lava_ tighter around his waist and spat tobacco
juice overside.
"Sure," he answered. "Griffiths lay at Savo last night, taking on pigs
and yams and filling his water-tanks. Looked like he was going for a
long cruise, but he said no. Why? Did you want to see him?"
"Yes; but if you see him first don't tell him you've seen me."
The captain nodded and considered, and walked for'ard on his own deck to
keep abreast of the faster vessel.
