"Didn't need it. An uncle died and left him a fortune. He retired from
the navy, ran foul of an epidemic of trained nurses in Boston, and my
mother got a divorce. Also, she fell heir to an income of something like
thirty thousand dollars, and went to live in New Zealand. I was divided
between them, half-time New Zealand, half-time United States, until my
father's death last year. Now my mother has me altogether. He left me
his money--oh, a couple of millions--but my mother has had guardians
appointed on account of the drink. I'm worth all kinds of money, but I
can't touch a penny save what is doled out to me. But the old man, who
had got the tip on my drinking, left me the three spikes and the data
thereunto pertaining. Did it through his lawyers, unknown to my mother;
said it beat life insurance, and that if I had the backbone to go and
get it I could drink my back teeth awash until I died. Millions in the
hands of my guardians, slathers of shekels of my mother's that'll be
mine if she beats me to the crematory, another million waiting to be dug
up, and in the meantime I'm cadging on Lavina for two drinks a day. It's
hell, isn't it?--when you consider my thirst."
"Where's the island?"
"It's a long way from here."
"Name it."
"Not on your life, Captain Grief. You're making an easy half-million out
of this. You will sail under my directions, and when we're well to sea
and on our way I'll tell you and not before."
Grief shrugged his shoulders, dismissing the subject.
"When I've given you another drink I'll send the boat ashore with you,"
he said.
Pankburn was taken aback. For at least five minutes he debated with
himself, then licked his lips and surrendered.
"If you promise to go, I'll tell you now."
"Of course I'm willing to go. That's why I asked you. Name the island."
Pankburn looked at the bottle.
"I'll take that drink now, Captain."
"No you won't. That drink was for you if you went ashore. If you are
going to tell me the island, you must do it in your sober senses."
"Francis Island, if you will have it. Bougainville named it Barbour
Island."
"Off there all by its lonely in the Little Coral Sea," Grief said. "I
know it. Lies between New Ireland and New Guinea. A rotten hole now,
though it was all right when the _Flirt_ drove in the spikes and the
Chink pearler traded for them. The steamship _Castor_, recruiting labour
for the Upolu plantations, was cut off there with all hands two years
ago. I knew her captain well. The Germans sent a cruiser, shelled the
bush, burned half a dozen villages, killed a couple of niggers and a lot
of pigs, and--and that was all. The niggers always were bad there, but
they turned really bad forty years ago. That was when they cut off a
whaler. Let me see? What was her name?"
