"Say!" he called. "Jacobsen told me they were coming down this afternoon
to Gabera. Said they were going to lay there to-night and take on sweet
potatoes."
"Gabera has the only leading lights in the Solomons," Grief said, when
his schooner had drawn well ahead. "Is that right, Captain Ward?"
The captain nodded.
"And the little bight just around the point on this side, it's a rotten
anchorage, isn't it?"
"No anchorage. All coral patches and shoals, and a bad surf. That's
where the _Molly_ went to pieces three years ago."
Grief stared straight before him with lustreless eyes for a full minute,
as if summoning some vision to his inner sight. Then the corners of his
eyes wrinkled and the ends of his yellow mustache lifted in a smile.
"We'll anchor at Gabera," he said. "And run in close to the little bight
this side. I want you to drop me in a whaleboat as you go by. Also,
give me six boys, and serve out rifles. I'll be back on board before
morning."
The captain's face took on an expression of suspicion, which swiftly
slid into one of reproach.
"Oh, just a little fun, skipper," Grief protested with the apologetic
air of a schoolboy caught in mischief by an elder.
Captain Ward grunted, but Denby was all alertness.
"I'd like to go along, Mr. Grief," he said.
Grief nodded consent.
"Bring some axes and bush-knives," he said. "And, oh, by the way, a
couple of bright lanterns. See they've got oil in them."
V
An hour before sunset the _Wonder_ tore by the little bight. The wind
had freshened, and a lively sea was beginning to make. The shoals
toward the beach were already white with the churn of water, while those
farther out as yet showed no more sign than of discoloured water. As
the schooner went into the wind and backed her jib and staysail the
whaleboat was swung out. Into it leaped six breech-clouted Santa Cruz
boys, each armed with a rifle. Denby, carrying the lanterns, dropped
into the stern-sheets. Grief, following, paused on the rail.
"Pray for a dark night, skipper," he pleaded.
"You'll get it," Captain Ward answered. "There's no moon anyway, and
there won't be any sky. She'll be a bit squally, too."
The forecast sent a radiance into Grief's face, making more pronounced
the golden tint of his sunburn. He leaped down beside the supercargo.
"Cast off!" Captain Ward ordered. "Draw the headsails! Put your wheel
over! There! Steady! Take that course!"
The _Wonder_ filled away and ran on around the point for Gabera, while
the whaleboat, pulling six oars and steered by Grief, headed for the
beach. With superb boatmanship he threaded the narrow, tortuous channel
which no craft larger than a whaleboat could negotiate, until the shoals
and patches showed seaward and they grounded on the quiet, rippling
beach.
The next hour was filled with work. Moving about among the wild
cocoanuts and jungle brush, Grief selected the trees.
