"You fella Narada, you fella Billy, take um this fella boy along tree and
make fast, hands high up," was Sheldon's command.
While this was being done, slowly, amidst mutterings and restlessness on
the part of the onlookers, one of the house-boys fetched a heavy-handled,
heavy-lashed whip.  Sheldon began a speech.
"This fella Arunga, me cross along him too much.  I no steal this fella
Arunga.  I no gammon.  I say, 'All right, you come along me Berande, work
three fella year.'  He say, 'All right, me come along you work three
fella year.'  He come.  He catch plenty good fella _kai-kai_, {2} plenty
good fella money.  What name he run away?  Me too much cross along him.  I
knock what name outa him fella.  I pay Seelee, big fella master along
Balesuna, one case tobacco catch that fella Arunga.  All right.  Arunga
pay that fella case tobacco.  Six pounds that fella Arunga pay.  Alle
same one year more that fella Arunga work Berande.  All right.  Now he
catch ten fella whip three times.  You fella Billy catch whip, give that
fella Arunga ten fella three times.  All fella boys look see, all fella
Marys {3} look see; bime bye, they like run away they think strong fella
too much, no run away.  Billy, strong fella too much ten fella three
times."
The house-boy extended the whip to him, but Billy did not take it.
Sheldon waited quietly.  The eyes of all the cannibals were fixed upon
him in doubt and fear and eagerness.  It was the moment of test, whereby
the lone white man was to live or be lost.
"Ten fella three times, Billy," Sheldon said encouragingly, though there
was a certain metallic rasp in his voice.
Billy scowled, looked up and looked down, but did not move.
"Billy!"
Sheldon's voice exploded like a pistol shot.  The savage started
physically.  Grins overspread the grotesque features of the audience, and
there was a sound of tittering.
"S'pose you like too much lash that fella Arunga, you take him fella
Tulagi," Billy said.  "One fella government agent make plenty lash.  That
um fella law.  Me savvee um fella law."
It was the law, and Sheldon knew it.  But he wanted to live this day and
the next day and not to die waiting for the law to operate the next week
or the week after.
"Too much talk along you!" he cried angrily.  "What name eh?  What name?"
"Me savvee law," the savage repeated stubbornly.
"Astoa!"
Another man stepped forward in almost a sprightly way and glanced
insolently up.  Sheldon was selecting the worst characters for the
lesson.
"You fella Astoa, you fella Narada, tie up that fella Billy alongside
other fella same fella way."
"Strong fella tie," he cautioned them.
"You fella Astoa take that fella whip.  Plenty strong big fella too much
ten fella three times.  Savvee!"
"No," Astoa grunted.
Sheldon picked up the rifle that had leaned against the rail, and cocked
it.
"I know you, Astoa," he said calmly.  "You work along Queensland six
years."
