"I never shall know how much Ericson got out of it.  He lived ashore in a
nicely furnished house.  The shipwrights were giving it to him rent-free.
Fruit, vegetables, fish, meat, and ice came to this house every day, and
he paid for none of it.  It was part of his graft from the various
merchants.  And all the while, with tears in his eyes, he bemoaned the
vile treatment I was receiving from the gang.  No, I did not fall among
thieves.  I went to Tahiti.
"But when the robbers fell to cheating one another, I got my first clues
to the state of affairs.  One of the robbed robbers came to me after
dark, with facts, figures, and assertions.  I knew I was ruined if I went
to law.  The judges were corrupt like everything else.  But I did do one
thing.  In the dead of night I went to Ericson's house.  I had the same
revolver I've got now, and I made him stay in bed while I overhauled
things.  Nineteen hundred and odd francs was what I carried away with me.
He never complained to the police, and he never came back on board.  As
for the rest of the gang, they laughed and snapped their fingers at me.
There were two Americans in the place, and they warned me to leave the
law alone unless I wanted to leave the _Miele_ behind as well.
"Then I sent to New Zealand and got a German mate.  He had a master's
certificate, and was on the ship's papers as captain, but I was a better
navigator than he, and I was really captain myself.  I lost her, too, but
it's no reflection on my seamanship.  We were drifting four days outside
there in dead calms.  Then the nor'wester caught us and drove us on the
lee shore.  We made sail and tried to clew off, when the rotten work of
the Tahiti shipwrights became manifest.  Our jib-boom and all our head-
stays carried away.  Our only chance was to turn and run through the
passage between Florida and Ysabel.  And when we were safely through, in
the twilight, where the chart shows fourteen fathoms as the shoalest
water, we smashed on a coral patch.  The poor old _Miele_ struck only
once, and then went clear; but it was too much for her, and we just had
time to clear away in the boat when she went down.  The German mate was
drowned.  We lay all night to a sea-drag, and next morning sighted your
place here."
"I suppose you will go back to Von, now?" Sheldon queried.
"Nothing of the sort.  Dad planned to go to the Solomons.  I shall look
about for some land and start a small plantation.  Do you know any good
land around here?  Cheap?"
"By George, you Yankees are remarkable, really remarkable," said Sheldon.
"I should never have dreamed of such a venture."
"Adventure," Joan corrected him.
"That's right--adventure it is.  And if you'd gone ashore on Malaita
instead of Guadalcanal you'd have been _kai-kai'd_ long ago, along with
your noble Tahitian sailors."
