By eleven a messenger arrived from Balesuna village, dispatched by
Seelee.  The _Jessie_ had gone ashore half-way between the village and
Neal Island.  It was not till nightfall that two of the crew arrived,
reporting the drowning of Captain Oleson and of the one remaining boy.  As
for the _Jessie_, from what they told him Sheldon could not but conclude
that she was a total loss.  Further to hearten him, he was taken by a
shivering fit.  In half an hour he was burning up.  And he knew that at
least another day must pass before he could undertake even the smallest
dose of quinine.  He crawled under a heap of blankets, and a little later
found himself laughing aloud.  He had surely reached the limit of
disaster.  Barring earthquake or tidal-wave, the worst had already
befallen him.  The _Flibberty-Gibbet_ was certainly safe in Mboli Pass.
Since nothing worse could happen, things simply had to mend.  So it was,
shivering under his blankets, that he laughed, until the house-boys, with
heads together, marvelled at the devils that were in him.
CHAPTER IV--JOAN LACKLAND
By the second day of the northwester, Sheldon was in collapse from his
fever.  It had taken an unfair advantage of his weak state, and though it
was only ordinary malarial fever, in forty-eight hours it had run him as
low as ten days of fever would have done when he was in condition.  But
the dysentery had been swept away from Berande.  A score of convalescents
lingered in the hospital, but they were improving hourly.  There had been
but one more death--that of the man whose brother had wailed over him
instead of brushing the flies away.
On the morning of the fourth day of his fever, Sheldon lay on the
veranda, gazing dimly out over the raging ocean.  The wind was falling,
but a mighty sea was still thundering in on Berande beach, the flying
spray reaching in as far as the flagstaff mounds, the foaming wash
creaming against the gate-posts.  He had taken thirty grains of quinine,
and the drug was buzzing in his ears like a nest of hornets, making his
hands and knees tremble, and causing a sickening palpitation of the
stomach.  Once, opening his eyes, he saw what he took to be an
hallucination.  Not far out, and coming in across the _Jessie's_
anchorage, he saw a whale-boat's nose thrust skyward on a smoky crest and
disappear naturally, as an actual whale-boat's nose should disappear, as
it slid down the back of the sea.  He knew that no whale-boat should be
out there, and he was quite certain no men in the Solomons were mad
enough to be abroad in such a storm.
But the hallucination persisted.  A minute later, chancing to open his
eyes, he saw the whale-boat, full length, and saw right into it as it
rose on the face of a wave.  He saw six sweeps at work, and in the stern,
clearly outlined against the overhanging wall of white, a man who stood
erect, gigantic, swaying with his weight on the steering-sweep.  This he
saw, and an eighth man who crouched in the bow and gazed shoreward.  But
what startled Sheldon was the sight of a woman in the stern-sheets,
between the stroke-oar and the steersman.  A woman she was, for a braid
of her hair was flying, and she was just in the act of recapturing it and
stowing it away beneath a hat that for all the world was like his own
"Baden-Powell."
