"He had made his start, you know, in the South Seas--pearls and pearl
shell--and he was sure that more fortunes, in trove of one sort and
another, were to be picked up.  Cocoanut-planting was his particular
idea, with trading, and maybe pearling, along with other things, until
the plantation should come into bearing.  He traded off his yacht for a
schooner, the _Miele_, and away we went.  I took care of him and studied
navigation.  He was his own skipper.  We had a Danish mate, Mr. Ericson,
and a mixed crew of Japanese and Hawaiians.  We went up and down the Line
Islands, first, until Dad was heartsick.  Everything was changed.  They
had been annexed and divided by one power or another, while big companies
had stepped in and gobbled land, trading rights, fishing rights,
everything.
"Next we sailed for the Marquesas.  They were beautiful, but the natives
were nearly extinct.  Dad was cut up when he learned that the French
charged an export duty on copra--he called it medieval--but he liked the
land.  There was a valley of fifteen thousand acres on Nuka-hiva, half
inclosing a perfect anchorage, which he fell in love with and bought for
twelve hundred Chili dollars.  But the French taxation was outrageous
(that was why the land was so cheap), and, worst of all, we could obtain
no labour.  What kanakas there were wouldn't work, and the officials
seemed to sit up nights thinking out new obstacles to put in our way.
"Six months was enough for Dad.  The situation was hopeless.  'We'll go
to the Solomons,' he said, 'and get a whiff of English rule.  And if
there are no openings there we'll go on to the Bismarck Archipelago.  I'll
wager the Admiraltys are not yet civilized.'  All preparations were made,
things packed on board, and a new crew of Marquesans and Tahitians
shipped.  We were just ready to start to Tahiti, where a lot of repairs
and refitting for the _Miele_ were necessary, when poor Dad came down
sick and died."
"And you were left all alone?"
Joan nodded.
"Very much alone.  I had no brothers nor sisters, and all Dad's people
were drowned in a Kansas cloud-burst.  That happened when he was a little
boy.  Of course, I could go back to Von.  There's always a home there
waiting for me.  But why should I go?  Besides, there were Dad's plans,
and I felt that it devolved upon me to carry them out.  It seemed a fine
thing to do.  Also, I wanted to carry them out.  And . . . here I am.
"Take my advice and never go to Tahiti.  It is a lovely place, and so are
the natives.  But the white people!  Now Barabbas lived in Tahiti.
Thieves, robbers, and lairs--that is what they are.  The honest men
wouldn't require the fingers of one hand to count.  The fact that I was a
woman only simplified matters with them.  They robbed me on every
pretext, and they lied without pretext or need.  Poor Mr. Ericson was
corrupted.  He joined the robbers, and O.K.'d all their demands even up
to a thousand per cent.  If they robbed me of ten francs, his share was
three.  One bill of fifteen hundred francs I paid, netted him five
hundred francs.  All this, of course, I learned afterward.  But the
_Miele_ was old, the repairs had to be made, and I was charged, not three
prices, but seven prices.
