After the break of one fine day the weather was pretty consistently
dull. When the low sky thinned a trifle, the pale white spot of a sun
did no more than throw a bluish lustre on the water, giving it the dark
brightness of newly cut lead. Through one after another of those gray
days Alexander drowsed and mused, drinking in the grateful moisture. But
the complete peace of the first part of the voyage was over. Sometimes
he rose suddenly from his chair as if driven out, and paced the deck for
hours. People noticed his propensity for walking in rough weather, and
watched him curiously as he did his rounds. From his abstraction and the
determined set of his jaw, they fancied he must be thinking about his
bridge. Every one had heard of the new cantilever bridge in Canada.
But Alexander was not thinking about his work. After the fourth night
out, when his will suddenly softened under his hands, he had been
continually hammering away at himself. More and more often, when he
first wakened in the morning or when he stepped into a warm place after
being chilled on the deck, he felt a sudden painful delight at being
nearer another shore. Sometimes when he was most despondent, when he
thought himself worn out with this struggle, in a flash he was free
of it and leaped into an overwhelming consciousness of himself. On the
instant he felt that marvelous return of the impetuousness, the intense
excitement, the increasing expectancy of youth.
CHAPTER VI
The last two days of the voyage Bartley found almost intolerable. The
stop at Queenstown, the tedious passage up the Mersey, were things that
he noted dimly through his growing impatience. He had planned to stop in
Liverpool; but, instead, he took the boat train for London.
Emerging at Euston at half-past three o'clock in the afternoon,
Alexander had his luggage sent to the Savoy and drove at once to Bedford
Square. When Marie met him at the door, even her strong sense of the
proprieties could not restrain her surprise and delight. She blushed and
smiled and fumbled his card in her confusion before she ran upstairs.
Alexander paced up and down the hallway, buttoning and unbuttoning his
overcoat, until she returned and took him up to Hilda's living-room. The
room was empty when he entered. A coal fire was crackling in the grate
and the lamps were lit, for it was already beginning to grow dark
outside. Alexander did not sit down. He stood his ground over by the
windows until Hilda came in. She called his name on the threshold, but
in her swift flight across the room she felt a change in him and caught
herself up so deftly that he could not tell just when she did it.
She merely brushed his cheek with her lips and put a hand lightly and
joyously on either shoulder. "Oh, what a grand thing to happen on a
raw day! I felt it in my bones when I woke this morning that something
splendid was going to turn up. I thought it might be Sister Kate or
Cousin Mike would be happening along. I never dreamed it would be you,
Bartley. But why do you let me chatter on like this? Come over to the
fire; you're chilled through."
