He resolved to build, if possible, a little cottage, or, as he called
it, a bower, in the yard in front of his shelter. The hedge of
thistles was growing and formed a fence that an animal could not get
through. His screen of willows on the outside of this would soon hide
him from view from the sea. He had the wall of rock and the hill
behind him.
He planned out his way of building it very carefully. "It must be
done," he said (Robinson formed the habit of talking to himself, so
that he would not forget how to talk), "without hammer, nails, or
saw."
He first sought out four posts, as large as he could well handle.
There were always broken trees and branches in the forest. If he
searched long enough he could find posts just suited to his need. He
wanted four of the same thickness and height and with a fork at the
end. After long searching he found what he wanted. He was careful to
get those that he could drag to his shelter.
He placed these in the ground, forming the corners of a square about
ten feet long. In the forks he placed poles running around about eight
feet from the ground. At about every three feet he fastened others,
running in the same way, with heavy cords made of fibre. He found his
greatest trouble with the roof. It must be sloped to shed rain. He
had to find two more forked posts, three or four feet longer than the
others. These he placed opposite each other in the centers of two
sides. Upon these he placed a ridge pole. He then laid other poles
lengthwise from ridge pole to the edge of the frames.
His frame was now done. His plan was now to cover this frame with
straw or grasses tied in bundles. He had seen the barns in the country
thatched in this way by the Dutch farmers in New York State. He
gathered the straw of the wild rice. It was long, straight and tough.
[Illustration: ROBINSON'S BOWER]
It was easily tied into flat bundles. These he bound securely on to
the frame work with cords. He began at the bottom so that the ends
of the row would lap over the tops of the last one put on.
In this way he built a very comfortable and rainproof bower. It was
easy to make a bed of poles covered with straw. A table and bench were
added and shelves of poles.
Robinson felt great joy over this new home. "I will not now be sick
any more," he said. "In case of danger I can get into my cave. But
at all other times I will live in my bower." He had use still for his
cave. He could use it to store some things in. But he had to be
careful about the dampness in wet weather.
Robinson was getting to feel at home. He was no longer so sad. He did
not grieve so much for home. He looked upon his home with great
delight It was secure. He had his herd of goats always in his sight.
At evening he would do his milking. He found he could keep the milk
for some time in the cave. He was tempted to try making some butter
from the good, rich cream. "But," said Robinson, "I have neither
vessels to make it in nor bread to eat it on."
