"I think you are right, my dear; but you have lived in the country, and
have n't yet learned that modesty has gone out of fashion." And with a
good-night kiss, grandma left Polly to dream dreadfully of dancing in
jockey costume, on a great stage; while Tom played a big drum in the
orchestra; and the audience all wore the faces of her father and mother,
looking sorrowfully at her, with eyes like saucers, and faces as red as
Fanny's sash.
CHAPTER II. NEW FASHIONS
"I'M going to school this morning; so come up and get ready," said
Fanny, a day or two after, as she left the late breakfast-table.
"You look very nice; what have you got to do?" asked Polly, following
her into the hall.
"Prink half an hour, and put on her wad," answered the irreverent Tom,
whose preparations for school consisted in flinging his cap on to his
head, and strapping up several big books, that looked as if they were
sometimes used as weapons of defence.
"What is a wad?" asked Polly, while Fanny marched up without deigning
any reply.
"Somebody's hair on the top of her head in the place where it ought not
to be;" and Tom went whistling away with an air of sublime indifference
as to the state of his own "curly pow."
"Why must you be so fine to go to school?" asked Polly, watching Fan
arrange the little frizzles on her forehead, and settle the various
streamers and festoons belonging to her dress.
"All the girls do; and it's proper, for you never know who you may
meet. I'm going to walk, after my lessons, so I wish you'd wear your
best hat and sack," answered Fanny, trying to stick her own hat on at an
angle which defied all the laws of gravitation.
"I will, if you don't think this is nice enough. I like the other best,
because it has a feather; but this is warmer, so I wear it every day."
And Polly ran into her own room, to prink also, fearing that her friend
might be ashamed of her plain costume. "Won't your hands be cold in kid
gloves?" she said, as they went down the snowy street, with a north wind
blowing in their faces.
"Yes, horrid cold; but my muff is so big, I won't carry it. Mamma won't
have it cut up, and my ermine one must be kept for best;" and Fanny
smoothed her Bismark kids with an injured air.
"I suppose my gray squirrel is ever so much too big; but it's nice and
cosy, and you may warm your hands in it if you want to," said Polly,
surveying her new woollen gloves with a dissatisfied look, though she
had thought them quite elegant before.
"Perhaps I will, by and by. Now, Polly, don't you be shy. I'll only
introduce two or three of the girls; and you need n't mind old Monsieur
a bit, or read if you don't want to. We shall be in the anteroom; so you
'll only see about a dozen, and they will be so busy, they won't mind
you much."
