Yet Polly rather liked Tom, for she soon saw that he was neglected,
hustled out of the way, and left to get on pretty much by himself. She
often wondered why his mother did n't pet him as she did the girls;
why his father ordered him about as if he was a born rebel, and took so
little interest in his only son. Fanny considered him a bear, and was
ashamed of him; but never tried to polish him up a bit; and Maud and
he lived together like a cat and dog who did not belong to a "happy
family." Grandma was the only one who stood by poor old Tom; and Polly
more than once discovered him doing something kind for Madam, and
seeming very much ashamed when it was found out. He was n't respectful
at all; he called her "the old lady," and told her he "would n't be
fussed over"; but when anything was the matter, he always went to "the
old lady," and was very grateful for the "fussing." Polly liked him for
this, and often wanted to speak of it; but she had a feeling that it
would n't do, for in praising their affection, she was reproaching
others with neglect; so she held her tongue, and thought about it all
the more. Grandma was rather neglected, too, and perhaps that is
the reason why Tom and she were such good friends. She was even more
old-fashioned than Polly; but people did n't seem to mind it so much in
her, as her day was supposed to be over, and nothing was expected of her
but to keep out of everybody's way, and to be handsomely dressed when
she appeared "before people." Grandma led a quiet, solitary life in her
own rooms, full of old furniture, pictures, books, and relics of a past
for which no one cared but herself. Her son went up every evening for a
little call, was very kind to her, and saw that she wanted nothing money
could buy; but he was a busy man, so intent on getting rich that he
had no time to enjoy what he already possessed. Madam never complained,
interfered, or suggested; but there was a sad sort of quietude about
her, a wistful look in her faded eyes, as if she wanted something which
money could not buy, and when children were near, she hovered about
them, evidently longing to cuddle and caress them as only grandmothers
can. Polly felt this; and as she missed the home-petting, gladly showed
that she liked to see the quiet old face brighten, as she entered the
solitary room, where few children came, except the phantoms of little
sons and daughters, who, to the motherly heart that loved them, never
faded or grew up. Polly wished the children would be kinder to grandma;
but it was not for her to tell them so, although it troubled her a good
deal, and she could only try to make up for it by being as dutiful and
affectionate as if their grandma was her own.
