"Don't they cost a great deal?"
"Eight or nine dollars, I believe. I have mine charged; but it don't
matter if you have n't got the money. I can lend you some."
"I've got ten dollars to do what I like with; but it's meant to get
some presents for the children." And Polly took out her purse in an
undecided way.
"You can make presents easy enough. Grandma knows all sorts of nice
contrivances. They'll do just as well; and then you can get your
boots."
"Well; I'll look at them," said Polly, following Fanny into the store,
feeling rather rich and important to be shopping in this elegant manner.
"Are n't they lovely? Your foot is perfectly divine in that boot, Polly.
Get them for my party; you'll dance like a fairy," whispered Fan.
Polly surveyed the dainty, shining boot with the scalloped top, the
jaunty heel, and the delicate toe, thought her foot did look very well
in it, and after a little pause, said she would have them. It was all
very delightful till she got home, and was alone; then, on looking into
her purse, she saw one dollar and the list of things she meant to get
for mother and the children. How mean the dollar looked all alone! and
how long the list grew when there was nothing to buy the articles.
"I can't make skates for Ned, nor a desk for Will; and those are what
they have set their hearts upon. Father's book and mother's collar are
impossible now; and I'm a selfish thing to go and spend all my
money for myself. How could I do it?" And Polly eyed the new boots
reproachfully, as they stood in the first position as if ready for the
party. "They are lovely; but I don't believe they will feel good, for
I shall be thinking about my lost presents all the time," sighed Polly,
pushing the enticing boots out of sight. "I'll go and ask grandma what
I can do; for if I've got to make something for every one, I must begin
right away, or I shan't get done;" and off she bustled, glad to forget
her remorse in hard work.
Grandma proved equal to the emergency, and planned something for every
one, supplying materials, taste, and skill in the most delightful
manner. Polly felt much comforted; but while she began to knit a pretty
pair of white bed-socks, to be tied with rose-colored ribbons, for
her mother, she thought some very sober thoughts upon the subject of
temptation; and if any one had asked her just then what made her sigh,
as if something lay heavy on her conscience, she would have answered,
"Bronze boots."
CHAPTER IV. LITTLE THINGS
"IT'S so wainy, I can't go out, and evwybody is so cwoss they won't
play with me," said Maud, when Polly found her fretting on the stairs,
and paused to ask the cause of her wails.
"I'll play with you; only don't scream and wake your mother. What shall
we play?"
