"I'm glad those men are gone; they did worry me so talking, when I
wanted to hear," said Polly, as they rolled away.
"Which did you like best?" asked Fanny, with a languid air of
superiority.
"The plain one, who did n't say much; he picked up my muff when it
tumbled down, and took care of me in the crowd; the others did n't mind
anything about me."
"They thought you were a little girl, I suppose."
"My mother says a real gentleman is as polite to a little girl as to a
woman; so I like Mr. Sydney best, because he was kind to me."
"What a sharp child you are, Polly. I should n't have thought you'd
mind things like that," said Fanny, beginning to understand that there
may be a good deal of womanliness even in a little girl.
"I'm used to good manners, though I do live in the country," replied
Polly, rather warmly, for she did n't like to be patronized even by her
friends.
"Grandma says your mother is a perfect lady, and you are just like her;
so don't get in a passion with those poor fellows, and I'll see that
they behave better next time. Tom has no manners at all, and you don't
complain of him," added Fan, with a laugh.
"I don't care if he has n't; he's a boy, and acts like one, and I can
get on with him a great deal better than I can with those men."
Fanny was just going to take Polly to task for saying "those men"
in such a disrespectful tone, when both were startled by a smothered
"Cock-a-doodle-doo!" from under the opposite seat.
"It's Tom!" cried Fanny; and with the words out tumbled that
incorrigible boy, red in the face, and breathless with suppressed
laughter. Seating himself, he surveyed the girls as if well satisfied
with the success of his prank, and waiting to be congratulated upon it.
"Did you hear what we were saying?" demanded Fanny, uneasily.
"Oh, did n't I, every word?" And Tom exulted over them visibly.
"Did you ever see such a provoking toad, Polly? Now, I suppose you'll
go and tell papa a great story."
"P'r'aps I shall, and p'r'aps I shan't. How Polly did hop when I crowed!
I heard her squeal, and saw her cuddle up her feet."
"And you heard us praise your manners, did n't you?" asked Polly, slyly.
"Yes, and you liked'em; so I won't tell on you," said Tom, with a
re-assuring nod.
"There's nothing to tell."
"Ain't there, though? What do you suppose the governor will say to you
girls going on so with those dandies? I saw you."
"What has the Governor of Massachusetts to do with us?" asked Polly,
trying to look as if she meant what she said.
"Pooh! you know who I mean; so you need n't try to catch me up, as
grandma does."
"Tom, I'll make a bargain with you," cried Fanny, eagerly. "It was
n't my fault that Gus and Frank were there, and I could n't help their
speaking to me. I do as well as I can, and papa need n't be angry; for I
behave ever so much better than some of the girls. Don't I, Polly?"
