"Why, it's all full of shells!" exclaimed Maud, peering into the pan.
"Oh, thunder! I must have put'em in by mistake, and ate up the meats
without thinking," said Tom, trying to conceal his naughty satisfaction,
as the girls hung over the pan with faces full of disappointment and
despair.
"You did it on purpose, you horrid boy! I'll never let you have
anything to do with my fun again!" cried Fan, in a passion, trying to
catch and shake him, while he dodged and chuckled in high glee.
Maud began to wail over her lost delight, and Polly gravely poked at the
mess, which was quite spoilt. But her attention was speedily diverted
by the squabble going on in the corner; for Fanny, forgetful of her
young-ladyism and her sixteen years, had boxed Tom's ears, and Tom,
resenting the insult, had forcibly seated her in the coal-hod, where he
held her with one hand while he returned the compliment with the
other. Both were very angry, and kept twitting one another with every
aggravation they could invent, as they scolded and scuffled, presenting
a most unlovely spectacle.
Polly was not a model girl by any means, and had her little pets and
tempers like the rest of us; but she did n't fight, scream, and squabble
with her brothers and sisters in this disgraceful way, and was much
surprised to see her elegant friend in such a passion. "Oh, don't!
Please, don't! You'll hurt her, Tom! Let him go, Fanny! It's no matter
about the candy; we can make some more!" cried Polly, trying to part
them, and looking so distressed, that they stopped ashamed, and in a
minute sorry that she should see such a display of temper.
"I ain't going to be hustled round; so you'd better let me alone, Fan,"
said Tom, drawing off with a threatening wag of the head, adding, in
a different tone, "I only put the shells in for fun, Polly. You cook
another kettleful, and I'll pick you some meats all fair. Will you?"
"It's pretty hot work, and it's a pity to waste things; but I'll try
again, if you want me to," said Polly, with a patient sigh, for her arms
were tired and her face uncomfortably hot.
"We don't want you; get away!" said Maud, shaking a sticky spoon at him.
"Keep quiet, cry-baby. I'm going to stay and help; may n't I, Polly?"
"Bears like sweet things, so you want some candy, I guess. Where is
the molasses? We've used up all there was in the jug," said Polly,
good-naturedly, beginning again.
"Down cellar; I'll get it;" and taking the lamp and jug, Tom departed,
bent on doing his duty now like a saint.
The moment his light vanished, Fanny bolted the door, saying,
spitefully, "Now, we are safe from any more tricks. Let him thump and
call, it only serves him right; and when the candy is done, we'll let
the rascal out."
"How can we make it without molasses?" asked Polly, thinking that would
settle the matter.
