VIII.
If Offdean had stopped in Natchitoches on his way to the plantation,
he would have heard something there to astonish him, to say the very
least; for the whole town was talking of Euphrasie's wedding, which
was to take place in a few days. But he did not linger. After securing
a horse at the stable, he pushed on with all the speed of which the
animal was capable, and only in such company as his eager thoughts
afforded him.
The plantation was very quiet, with that stillness which broods over
broad, clean acres that furnish no refuge for so much as a bird that
sings. The negroes were scattered about the fields at work, with hoe
and plow, under the sun, and old Pierre, on his horse, was far off in
the midst of them.
Placide had arrived in the morning, after traveling all night, and had
gone to his room for an hour or two of rest. He had drawn the lounge
close up to the window to get what air he might through the closed
shutters. He was just beginning to doze when he heard Euphrasie's light
footsteps approaching. She stopped and seated herself so near that he
could have touched her if he had but reached out his hand. Her nearness
banished all desire to sleep, and he lay there content to rest his
limbs and think of her.
The portion of the gallery on which Euphrasie sat was facing the river,
and away from the road by which Offdean had reached the house. After
fastening his horse, he mounted the steps, and traversed the broad hall
that intersected the house from end to end, and that was open wide. He
found Euphrasie engaged upon a piece of sewing. She was hardly aware of
his presence before he had seated himself beside her.
She could not spesik. She only looked at him with frightened eyes, as
if his presence were that of some disembodied spirit.
"Are you not glad that I have come?" he asked her. "Have I made a
mistake in coming?" He was gazing into her eyes, seeking to read the
meaning of their new, and strange expression.
"Am I glad?" she faltered. "I don' know. W'at has that to do? You've
come to see the work, of co'se. It's--it's only half done, Mr. Offdean.
They would n' listen to me or to papa, an' you did n' seem to care."
"I have n't come to see the work," he said, with a smile of love and
confidence. "I am here only to see you,--to say how much I want you,
and need you--to tell you how I love you."
She rose, half choking with words she could not utter. But he seized
her hands and held her there.
"The plantation is mine, Euphrasie,--or it will be when you say that
you will be my wife," he went on excitedly. "I know that you love me"--
"I do not!" she exclaimed wildly. "W'at do you mean? How do you dare,"
she gasped, "to say such things w'en you know that in two days I shall
be married to Placide" The last was said in a whisper; it was like a
wail.
