Suzanne had been in the city more than a month. It was already
the close of February, and the air was flower-scented, moist, and
deliciously mild.
"As I said: women, my dear Maman Chavan"--
"Let us hear no more about women!" cried Suzanne, impatiently. "_Cher
Maitre!_ but Hector can be tiresome when he wants. Talk, talk; to say
what in the end?"
"Quite right, my cousin; when I might have been saying how charming you
are this morning. But don't think that I have n't noticed it," and he
looked at her with a deliberation that quite unsettled her. She took a
letter from her pocket and handed it to him.
"Here, read all the nice things mamma has to say of you, and the love
messages she sends to you." He accepted the several closely written
sheets from her and began to look over them.
"Ah, _la bonne tante_," he laughed, when he came to the tender
passages that referred to himself. He had pushed aside the glass of
wine that he had only partly filled at the beginning of breakfast and
that he had scarcely touched. Maman Chavan again replenished her own.
She also lighted a cigarette. So did Suzanne, who was learning to
smoke. Hector did not smoke; he did not use tobacco in any form, he
always said to those who offered him cigars.
Suzanne rested her elbows on the table, adjusted the ruffles about her
wrists, puffed awkwardly at her cigarette that kept going out, and
hummed the Kyrie Eleison that she had heard so beautifully rendered
an hour before at the Cathedral, while she gazed off into the green
depths of the garden. Maman Chavan slipped a little silver medal toward
her, accompanying the action with a pantomime that Suzanne readily
understood. She, in turn, secretly and adroitly transferred the medal
to Hector's coat-pocket. He noticed the action plainly enough, but
pretended not to.
"Natchitoches has n't changed," he commented. "The everlasting
_can-cans!_ when will they have done with them? This is n't little
Athenaise Miche, getting married! _Sapristi!_ but it makes one
old! And old Papa Jean-Pierre only dead now? I thought he was out
of purgatory five years ago. And who is this Laballiere? One of the
Laballieres of St. James?"
"St. James, _mon cher_. Monsieur Alphonse Laballiere; an aristocrat
from the 'golden coast.' But it is a history, if you will believe me.
_Figurez vouz_, Maman Chavan,--_pensez donc, mon ami_"--And with much
dramatic fire, during which the cigarette went irrevocably out, she
proceeded to narrate her experiences with Laballiere.
"Impossible!" exclaimed Hector when the climax was reached; but his
indignation was not so patent as she would have liked it to be.
"And to think of an affront like that going unpunished!" was Maman
Chavan's more sympathetic comment.
"Oh, the scholars were only too ready to offer violence to poor little
Andre, but that, you can understand, I would not permit. And now, here
is mamma gone completely over to him; entrapped, God only knows how!"
