Usually, my falls destroy my dreams, the nervous shock being sufficient
to bridge the thousand centuries in an instant and hurl me wide awake
into my little bed, where, perchance, I lie sweating and trembling and
hear the cuckoo clock calling the hour in the hall. But this dream of my
leaving home I have had many times, and never yet have I been awakened
by it. Always do I crash, shrieking, down through the brush and fetch up
with a bump on the ground.
Scratched and bruised and whimpering, I lay where I had fallen. Peering
up through the bushes, I could see the Chatterer. He had set up a
demoniacal chant of joy and was keeping time to it with his teetering.
I quickly hushed my whimpering. I was no longer in the safety of the
trees, and I knew the danger I ran of bringing upon myself the hunting
animals by too audible an expression of my grief.
I remember, as my sobs died down, that I became interested in watching
the strange light-effects produced by partially opening and closing my
tear-wet eyelids. Then I began to investigate, and found that I was not
so very badly damaged by my fall. I had lost some hair and hide, here
and there; the sharp and jagged end of a broken branch had thrust fully
an inch into my forearm; and my right hip, which had borne the brunt
of my contact with the ground, was aching intolerably. But these, after
all, were only petty hurts. No bones were broken, and in those days the
flesh of man had finer healing qualities than it has to-day. Yet it
was a severe fall, for I limped with my injured hip for fully a week
afterward.
Next, as I lay in the bushes, there came upon me a feeling of
desolation, a consciousness that I was homeless. I made up my mind never
to return to my mother and the Chatterer. I would go far away through
the terrible forest, and find some tree for myself in which to roost. As
for food, I knew where to find it. For the last year at least I had
not been beholden to my mother for food. All she had furnished me was
protection and guidance.
I crawled softly out through the bushes. Once I looked back and saw the
Chatterer still chanting and teetering. It was not a pleasant sight. I
knew pretty well how to be cautious, and I was exceedingly careful on
this my first journey in the world.
I gave no thought as to where I was going. I had but one purpose, and
that was to go away beyond the reach of the Chatterer. I climbed into
the trees and wandered on amongst them for hours, passing from tree to
tree and never touching the ground. But I did not go in any particular
direction, nor did I travel steadily. It was my nature, as it was the
nature of all my folk, to be inconsequential. Besides, I was a mere
child, and I stopped a great deal to play by the way.
