He hated me from the first. And I quickly learned to be afraid of him
and his malicious pranks. Whenever he came in sight I crept close to my
mother and clung to her. But I was growing older all the time, and it
was inevitable that I should from time to time stray from her, and stray
farther and farther. And these were the opportunities that the Chatterer
waited for. (I may as well explain that we bore no names in those days;
were not known by any name. For the sake of convenience I have myself
given names to the various Folk I was more closely in contact with,
and the "Chatterer" is the most fitting description I can find for that
precious stepfather of mine. As for me, I have named myself "Big-Tooth."
My eye-teeth were pronouncedly large.)
But to return to the Chatterer. He persistently terrorized me. He was
always pinching me and cuffing me, and on occasion he was not above
biting me. Often my mother interfered, and the way she made his fur
fly was a joy to see. But the result of all this was a beautiful and
unending family quarrel, in which I was the bone of contention.
No, my home-life was not happy. I smile to myself as I write the phrase.
Home-life! Home! I had no home in the modern sense of the term. My home
was an association, not a habitation. I lived in my mother's care, not
in a house. And my mother lived anywhere, so long as when night came she
was above the ground.
My mother was old-fashioned. She still clung to her trees. It is true,
the more progressive members of our horde lived in the caves above the
river. But my mother was suspicious and unprogressive. The trees were
good enough for her. Of course, we had one particular tree in which we
usually roosted, though we often roosted in other trees when nightfall
caught us. In a convenient fork was a sort of rude platform of twigs
and branches and creeping things. It was more like a huge bird-nest than
anything else, though it was a thousand times cruder in the weaving than
any bird-nest. But it had one feature that I have never seen attached to
any bird-nest, namely, a roof.
Oh, not a roof such as modern man makes! Nor a roof such as is made by
the lowest aborigines of to-day. It was infinitely more clumsy than the
clumsiest handiwork of man--of man as we know him. It was put together
in a casual, helter-skelter sort of way. Above the fork of the tree
whereon we rested was a pile of dead branches and brush. Four or five
adjacent forks held what I may term the various ridge-poles. These were
merely stout sticks an inch or so in diameter. On them rested the brush
and branches. These seemed to have been tossed on almost aimlessly.
There was no attempt at thatching. And I must confess that the roof
leaked miserably in a heavy rain.
