"He sure is," Daylight agreed, after Campbell had thrown up his hand.
"He knows when he's up against it, and he plays accordin'. I see that
two thousand, and then I'll see the draw."
In a dead silence, save for the low voices of the three players, the
draw was made.  Thirty-four thousand dollars were already in the pot,
and the play possibly not half over.  To the Virgin's amazement,
Daylight held up his three queens, discarding his eights and calling
for two cards.  And this time not even she dared look at what he had
drawn.  She knew her limit of control. Nor did he look.  The two new
cards lay face down on the table where they had been dealt to him.
"Cards?" Kearns asked of MacDonald.
"Got enough," was the reply.
"You can draw if you want to, you know," Kearns warned him.
"Nope; this'll do me."
Kearns himself drew two cards, but did not look at them.
Still Harnish let his cards lie.
"I never bet in the teeth of a pat hand," he said slowly, looking at
the saloon-keeper.  "You-all start her rolling, Mac."
MacDonald counted his cards carefully, to make double sure it was not a
foul hand, wrote a sum on a paper slip, and slid it into the pot, with
the simple utterance:--
"Five thousand."
Kearns, with every eye upon him, looked at his two-card draw, counted
the other three to dispel any doubt of holding more than five cards,
and wrote on a betting slip.
"I see you, Mac," he said, "and I raise her a little thousand just so
as not to keep Daylight out."
The concentrated gaze shifted to Daylight.  He likewise examined his
draw and counted his five cards.
"I see that six thousand, and I raise her five thousand...just to try
and keep you out, Jack."
"And I raise you five thousand just to lend a hand at keeping Jack
out," MacDonald said, in turn.
His voice was slightly husky and strained, and a nervous twitch in the
corner of his mouth followed speech.
Kearns was pale, and those who looked on noted that his hand trembled
as he wrote his slip.  But his voice was unchanged.
"I lift her along for five thousand," he said.
Daylight was now the centre.  The kerosene lamps above flung high
lights from the rash of sweat on his forehead.  The bronze of his
cheeks was darkened by the accession of blood.  His black eyes
glittered, and his nostrils were distended and eager.  They were large
nostrils, tokening his descent from savage ancestors who had survived
by virtue of deep lungs and generous air-passages. Yet, unlike
MacDonald, his voice was firm and customary, and, unlike Kearns, his
hand did not tremble when he wrote.
"I call, for ten thousand," he said.  "Not that I'm afraid of you-all,
Mac.  It's that hunch of Jack's."
"I hump his hunch for five thousand just the same," said MacDonald.  "I
had the best hand before the draw, and I still guess I got it."
