The winner smiled and nodded, but seemed incapable of speech.
"I'd shout the drinks," MacDonald said, "only the house don't belong to
me any more."
"Yes, it does," Kearns replied, first wetting his lips with his tongue.
"Your note's good for any length of time.  But the drinks are on me."
"Name your snake-juice, you-all--the winner pays!" Daylight called out
loudly to all about him, at the same time rising from his chair and
catching the Virgin by the arm.  "Come on for a reel, you-all dancers.
The night's young yet, and it's Helen Breakfast and the mail contract
for me in the morning.  Here, you-all Rawlins, you--I hereby do take
over that same contract, and I start for salt water at nine
A.M.--savvee?  Come on, you-all!  Where's that fiddler?"
CHAPTER III
It was Daylight's night.  He was the centre and the head of the revel,
unquenchably joyous, a contagion of fun.  He multiplied himself, and in
so doing multiplied the excitement.  No prank he suggested was too wild
for his followers, and all followed save those that developed into
singing imbeciles and fell warbling by the wayside.  Yet never did
trouble intrude.  It was known on the Yukon that when Burning Daylight
made a night of it, wrath and evil were forbidden.  On his nights men
dared not quarrel.  In the younger days such things had happened, and
then men had known what real wrath was, and been man-handled as only
Burning Daylight could man-handle.  On his nights men must laugh and be
happy or go home.  Daylight was inexhaustible.  In between dances he
paid over to Kearns the twenty thousand in dust and transferred to him
his Moosehide claim.  Likewise he arranged the taking over of Billy
Rawlins' mail contract, and made his preparations for the start.  He
despatched a messenger to rout out Kama, his dog-driver--a Tananaw
Indian, far-wandered from his tribal home in the service of the
invading whites.  Kama entered the Tivoli, tall, lean, muscular, and
fur-clad, the pick of his barbaric race and barbaric still, unshaken
and unabashed by the revellers that rioted about him while Daylight
gave his orders. "Um," said Kama, tabling his instructions on his
fingers.  "Get um letters from Rawlins.  Load um on sled.  Grub for
Selkirk--you think um plenty dog-grub stop Selkirk?"
"Plenty dog-grub, Kama."
"Um, bring sled this place nine um clock.  Bring um snowshoes. No bring
um tent.  Mebbe bring um fly?  um little fly?"
"No fly," Daylight answered decisively.
"Um much cold."
"We travel light--savvee?  We carry plenty letters out, plenty letters
back.  You are strong man.  Plenty cold, plenty travel, all right."
"Sure all right," Kama muttered, with resignation.
"Much cold, no care a damn.  Um ready nine um clock."
He turned on his moccasined heel and walked out, imperturbable,
sphinx-like, neither giving nor receiving greetings nor looking to
right or left.  The Virgin led Daylight away into a corner.
"Look here, Daylight," she said, in a low voice, "you're busted."
"Higher'n a kite."
"I've eight thousand in Mac's safe--" she began.
