Well, it is the anxiety and fretting about colds, and fevers, and
draughts, and getting our feet wet, and about forbidden food eaten in
terror of indigestion, that brings on the cold and the fever and the
indigestion and the most of our other ailments; and so, if the Science
can banish that anxiety from the world I think it can reduce the world's
disease and pain about four-fifths.
In this October number many of the redeemed testify and give thanks;
and not coldly, but with passionate gratitude. As a rule they seem
drunk with health, and with the surprise of it, the wonder of it, the
unspeakable glory and splendor of it, after a long, sober spell spent in
inventing imaginary diseases and concreting them with doctor-stuff.
The first witness testifies that when "this most beautiful Truth first
dawned on him" he had "nearly all the ills that flesh is heir to"; that
those he did not have he thought he had--and this made the tale about
complete. What was the natural result? Why, he was a dump-pit "for all
the doctors, druggists, and patent medicines of the country." Christian
Science came to his help, and "the old sick conditions passed away," and
along with them the "dismal forebodings" which he had been accustomed
to employ in conjuring up ailments. And so he was a healthy and cheerful
man, now, and astonished.
But I am not astonished, for from other sources I know what must have
been his method of applying Christian Science. If I am in the right, he
watchfully and diligently diverted his mind from unhealthy channels and
compelled it to travel in healthy ones. Nothing contrivable by human
invention could be more formidably effective than that, in banishing
imaginary ailments and in closing the entrances against sub-sequent
applicants of their breed. I think his method was to keep saying, "I
am well! I am sound!--sound and well! well and sound! Perfectly sound,
perfectly well! I have no pain; there's no such thing as pain! I have no
disease; there's no such thing as disease! Nothing is real but Mind; all
is Mind, All-Good Good-Good, Life, Soul, Liver, Bones, one of a series,
ante and pass the buck!"
I do not mean that that was exactly the formula used, but that it
doubtless contains the spirit of it. The Scientist would attach value to
the exact formula, no doubt, and to the religious spirit in which it was
used. I should think that any formula that would divert the mind from
unwholesome channels and force it into healthy ones would answer every
purpose with some people, though not with all. I think it most likely
that a very religious man would find the addition of the religious
spirit a powerful reinforcement in his case.
The second witness testifies that the Science banished "an old organic
trouble," which the doctor and the surgeon had been nursing with drugs
and the knife for seven years.
He calls it his "claim." A surface-miner would think it was not
his claim at all, but the property of the doctor and his pal the
surgeon--for he would be misled by that word, which is Christian-Science
slang for "ailment." The Christian Scientist has no ailment; to him
there is no such thing, and he will not use the hateful word. All that
happens to him is that upon his attention an imaginary disturbance
sometimes obtrudes itself which claims to be an ailment but isn't.
