   1.Sen. Then worthy Martius,
Attend vpon Cominius to these Warres
   Com. It is your former promise
   Mar. Sir it is,
And I am constant: Titus Lucius, thou
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus face.
What art thou stiffe? Stand'st out?
  Tit. No Caius Martius,
Ile leane vpon one Crutch, and fight with tother,
Ere stay behinde this Businesse
   Men. Oh true-bred
   Sen. Your Company to'th' Capitoll, where I know
Our greatest Friends attend vs
   Tit. Lead you on: Follow Cominius, we must followe
you, right worthy your Priority
   Com. Noble Martius
   Sen. Hence to your homes, be gone
   Mar. Nay let them follow,
The Volces haue much Corne: take these Rats thither,
To gnaw their Garners. Worshipfull Mutiners,
Your valour puts well forth: Pray follow.
Exeunt.
Citizens steale away. Manet Sicin. & Brutus.
  Sicin. Was euer man so proud as is this Martius?
  Bru. He has no equall
   Sicin. When we were chosen Tribunes for the people
   Bru. Mark'd you his lip and eyes
   Sicin. Nay, but his taunts
   Bru. Being mou'd, he will not spare to gird the Gods
   Sicin. Bemocke the modest Moone
   Bru. The present Warres deuoure him, he is growne
Too proud to be so valiant
   Sicin. Such a Nature, tickled with good successe, disdaines
the shadow which he treads on at noone, but I do
wonder, his insolence can brooke to be commanded vnder
Cominius?
  Bru. Fame, at the which he aymes,
In whom already he's well grac'd, cannot
Better be held, nor more attain'd then by
A place below the first: for what miscarries
Shall be the Generals fault, though he performe
To th' vtmost of a man, and giddy censure
Will then cry out of Martius: Oh, if he
Had borne the businesse
   Sicin. Besides, if things go well,
Opinion that so stickes on Martius, shall
Of his demerits rob Cominius
   Bru. Come: halfe all Cominius Honors are to Martius
Though Martius earn'd them not: and all his faults
To Martius shall be Honors, though indeed
In ought he merit not
   Sicin. Let's hence, and heare
How the dispatch is made, and in what fashion
More then his singularity, he goes
Vpon this present Action
   Bru. Let's along.
Exeunt.
Enter Tullus Auffidius with Senators of Coriolus.
  1.Sen. So, your opinion is Auffidius,
That they of Rome are entred in our Counsailes,
And know how we proceede,
  Auf. Is it not yours?
What euer haue bin thought one in this State
That could be brought to bodily act, ere Rome
Had circumuention: 'tis not foure dayes gone
Since I heard thence, these are the words, I thinke
I haue the Letter heere: yes, heere it is;
They haue prest a Power, but it is not knowne
Whether for East or West: the Dearth is great,
The people Mutinous: And it is rumour'd,
Cominius, Martius your old Enemy
(Who is of Rome worse hated then of you)
And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
These three leade on this Preparation
Whether 'tis bent: most likely, 'tis for you:
Consider of it
