   Virg. His bloody Brow? Oh Iupiter, no blood
   Volum. Away you Foole; it more becomes a man
Then gilt his Trophe. The brests of Hecuba
When she did suckle Hector, look'd not louelier
Then Hectors forhead, when it spit forth blood
At Grecian sword. Contenning, tell Valeria
We are fit to bid her welcome.
Exit Gent.
  Vir. Heauens blesse my Lord from fell Auffidius
   Vol. Hee'l beat Auffidius head below his knee,
And treade vpon his necke.
Enter Valeria with an Vsher, and a Gentlewoman.
  Val. My Ladies both good day to you
   Vol. Sweet Madam
   Vir. I am glad to see your Ladyship
   Val. How do you both? You are manifest house-keepers.
What are you sowing heere? A fine spotte in good
faith. How does your little Sonne?
  Vir. I thanke your Lady-ship: Well good Madam
   Vol. He had rather see the swords, and heare a Drum,
then looke vpon his Schoolmaster
   Val. A my word the Fathers Sonne: Ile sweare 'tis a
very pretty boy. A my troth, I look'd vpon him a Wensday
halfe an houre together: ha's such a confirm'd countenance.
I saw him run after a gilded Butterfly, & when
he caught it, he let it go againe, and after it againe, and ouer
and ouer he comes, and vp againe: catcht it again: or
whether his fall enrag'd him, or how 'twas, hee did so set
his teeth, and teare it. Oh, I warrant how he mammockt
it
   Vol. One on's Fathers moods
   Val. Indeed la, tis a Noble childe
   Virg. A Cracke Madam
   Val. Come, lay aside your stitchery, I must haue you
play the idle Huswife with me this afternoone
   Virg. No (good Madam)
I will not out of doores
   Val. Not out of doores?
  Volum. She shall, she shall
   Virg. Indeed no, by your patience; Ile not ouer the
threshold, till my Lord returne from the Warres
   Val. Fye, you confine your selfe most vnreasonably:
Come, you must go visit the good Lady that lies in
   Virg. I will wish her speedy strength, and visite her
with my prayers: but I cannot go thither
   Volum. Why I pray you
   Vlug. 'Tis not to saue labour, nor that I want loue
   Val. You would be another Penelope: yet they say, all
the yearne she spun in Vlisses absence, did but fill Athica
full of Mothes. Come, I would your Cambrick were sensible
as your finger, that you might leaue pricking it for
pitie. Come you shall go with vs
   Vir. No good Madam, pardon me, indeed I will not
foorth
   Val. In truth la go with me, and Ile tell you excellent
newes of your Husband
   Virg. Oh good Madam, there can be none yet
   Val. Verily I do not iest with you: there came newes
from him last night
   Vir. Indeed Madam
   Val. In earnest it's true; I heard a Senatour speake it.
Thus it is: the Volcies haue an Army forth, against who[m]
Cominius the Generall is gone, with one part of our Romane
power. Your Lord, and Titus Lartius, are set down
before their Citie Carioles, they nothing doubt preuailing,
and to make it breefe Warres. This is true on mine
Honor, and so I pray go with vs
