   Virg. Giue me excuse good Madame, I will obey you
in euery thing heereafter
   Vol. Let her alone Ladie, as she is now:
She will but disease our better mirth
   Valeria. In troth I thinke she would:
Fare you well then. Come good sweet Ladie.
Prythee Virgilia turne thy solemnesse out a doore,
And go along with vs
   Virgil. No
At a word Madam; Indeed I must not,
I wish you much mirth
   Val. Well, then farewell.
Exeunt. Ladies.
Enter Martius, Titus Lartius, with Drumme and Colours, with
Captaines and
Souldiers, as before the City Corialus: to them a Messenger.
  Martius. Yonder comes Newes:
A Wager they haue met
   Lar. My horse to yours, no
   Mar. Tis done
   Lart. Agreed
   Mar. Say, ha's our Generall met the Enemy?
  Mess. They lye in view, but haue not spoke as yet
   Lart. So, the good Horse is mine
   Mart. Ile buy him of you
   Lart. No, Ile nor sel, nor giue him: Lend you him I will
For halfe a hundred yeares: Summon the Towne
   Mar. How farre off lie these Armies?
  Mess. Within this mile and halfe
   Mar. Then shall we heare their Larum, & they Ours.
Now Mars, I prythee make vs quicke in worke,
That we with smoaking swords may march from hence
To helpe our fielded Friends. Come, blow thy blast.
They Sound a Parley: Enter two Senators with others on the Walles
of
Corialus.
Tullus Auffidious, is he within your Walles?
  1.Senat. No, nor a man that feares you lesse then he,
That's lesser then a little:
Drum a farre off.
Hearke, our Drummes
Are bringing forth our youth: Wee'l breake our Walles
Rather then they shall pound vs vp our Gates,
Which yet seeme shut, we haue but pin'd with Rushes,
They'le open of themselues. Harke you, farre off
Alarum farre off.
There is Auffidious. List what worke he makes
Among'st your clouen Army
   Mart. Oh they are at it
   Lart. Their noise be our instruction. Ladders hoa.
Enter the Army of the Volces.
  Mar. They feare vs not, but issue forth their Citie.
Now put your Shields before your hearts, and fight
With hearts more proofe then Shields.
Aduance braue Titus,
They do disdaine vs much beyond our Thoughts,
which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on my fellows
He that retires, Ile take him for a Volce,
And he shall feele mine edge.
Alarum, the Romans are beat back to their Trenches Enter Martius
Cursing.
  Mar. All the contagion of the South, light on you,
You Shames of Rome: you Heard of Byles and Plagues
Plaister you o're, that you may be abhorr'd
Farther then seene, and one infect another
Against the Winde a mile: you soules of Geese,
That beare the shapes of men, how haue you run
From Slaues, that Apes would beate; Pluto and Hell,
All hurt behinde, backes red, and faces pale
With flight and agued feare, mend and charge home,
Or by the fires of heauen, Ile leaue the Foe,
And make my Warres on you: Looke too't: Come on,
If you'l stand fast, wee'l beate them to their Wiues,
As they vs to our Trenches followes.
