The question, 'whether falsehood is impossible,' which Socrates
characteristically sets aside as too subtle for an old man (compare
Euthyd.), could only have arisen in an age of imperfect consciousness,
which had not yet learned to distinguish words from things. Socrates
replies in effect that words have an independent existence; thus
anticipating the solution of the mediaeval controversy of Nominalism
and Realism. He is aware too that languages exist in various degrees
of perfection, and that the analysis of them can only be carried to a
certain point. 'If we could always, or almost always, use likenesses,
which are the appropriate expressions, that would be the most perfect
state of language.' These words suggest a question of deeper interest
than the origin of language; viz. what is the ideal of language, how
far by any correction of their usages existing languages might become
clearer and more expressive than they are, more poetical, and also more
logical; or whether they are now finally fixed and have received their
last impress from time and authority.
On the whole, the Cratylus seems to contain deeper truths about language
than any other ancient writing. But feeling the uncertain ground upon
which he is walking, and partly in order to preserve the character of
Socrates, Plato envelopes the whole subject in a robe of fancy, and
allows his principles to drop out as if by accident.
II. What is the result of recent speculations about the origin and
nature of language? Like other modern metaphysical enquiries, they end
at last in a statement of facts. But, in order to state or understand
the facts, a metaphysical insight seems to be required. There are
more things in language than the human mind easily conceives. And many
fallacies have to be dispelled, as well as observations made. The true
spirit of philosophy or metaphysics can alone charm away metaphysical
illusions, which are always reappearing, formerly in the fancies of
neoplatonist writers, now in the disguise of experience and common
sense. An analogy, a figure of speech, an intelligible theory, a
superficial observation of the individual, have often been mistaken for
a true account of the origin of language.
Speaking is one of the simplest natural operations, and also the most
complex. Nothing would seem to be easier or more trivial than a few
words uttered by a child in any language. Yet into the formation of
those words have entered causes which the human mind is not capable
of calculating. They are a drop or two of the great stream or ocean of
speech which has been flowing in all ages. They have been transmitted
from one language to another; like the child himself, they go back to
the beginnings of the human race. How they originated, who can tell?
Nevertheless we can imagine a stage of human society in which the circle
of men's minds was narrower and their sympathies and instincts stronger;
in which their organs of speech were more flexible, and the sense of
hearing finer and more discerning; in which they lived more in company,
and after the manner of children were more given to express their
feelings; in which 'they moved all together,' like a herd of wild
animals, 'when they moved at all.' Among them, as in every society, a
particular person would be more sensitive and intelligent than the rest.
Suddenly, on some occasion of interest (at the approach of a wild beast,
shall we say?), he first, they following him, utter a cry which resounds
through the forest. The cry is almost or quite involuntary, and may be
an imitation of the roar of the animal. Thus far we have not speech,
but only the inarticulate expression of feeling or emotion in no respect
differing from the cries of animals; for they too call to one another
and are answered. But now suppose that some one at a distance not only
hears the sound, but apprehends the meaning: or we may imagine that
the cry is repeated to a member of the society who had been absent; the
others act the scene over again when he returns home in the evening. And
so the cry becomes a word. The hearer in turn gives back the word to
the speaker, who is now aware that he has acquired a new power. Many
thousand times he exercises this power; like a child learning to talk,
he repeats the same cry again, and again he is answered; he tries
experiments with a like result, and the speaker and the hearer rejoice
together in their newly-discovered faculty. At first there would be few
such cries, and little danger of mistaking or confusing them. For the
mind of primitive man had a narrow range of perceptions and feelings;
his senses were microscopic; twenty or thirty sounds or gestures would
be enough for him, nor would he have any difficulty in finding them.
Naturally he broke out into speech--like the young infant he laughed
and babbled; but not until there were hearers as well as speakers did
language begin. Not the interjection or the vocal imitation of the
object, but the interjection or the vocal imitation of the object
understood, is the first rudiment of human speech.
