[He strikes his forehead.]
CATILINE.  Despise yourself!  Catiline, scorn yourself!
You feel exalted powers in your soul;--
And yet what is the goal of all your struggle?
The surfeiting of sensual desires.
CATILINE.  [More calmly.]
But there are times, such as the present hour,
When secret longings kindle in my breast.
Ah, when I gaze on yonder city, Rome,
The proud, the rich,--and when I see that ruin
And wretchedness to which it now is sunk
Loom up before me like the flaming sun,--
Then loudly calls a voice within my soul:
Up, Catiline;--awake and be a man!
CATILINE.  [Abruptly.]  Ah, these are but delusions of the night,
Mere dreaming phantoms born of solitude.
At the slightest sound from grim reality,--
They flee into the silent depths within.
[The ambassadors of the Allobroges, AMBIORIX and OLLOVICO, with
their Escort, come down the highway without noticing CATILINE.]
AMBIORIX.  Behold our journey's end!  The walls of Rome!
To heaven aspires the lofty Capitol.
OLLOVICO.  So that is Rome?  Italy's overlord,
Germany's soon,--and Gaul's as well, perchance.
AMBIORIX.  Ah, yes, alas;--so it may prove betimes;
The sovereign power of Rome is merciless;
It crushes all it conquers, down to earth.
Now shall we see what lot we may expect:
If here be help against the wrongs at home,
And peace and justice for our native land.
OLLOVICO.  It will be granted us.
AMBIORIX.  So let us hope;
For we know nothing yet with certainty.
OLLOVICO.  You fear somewhat, it seems?
AMBIORIX.  And with good reason.
Jealous was ever Rome of her great power.
And bear in mind, this proud and haughty realm
Is not by chieftains ruled, as is our land.
At home the wise man or the warrior reigns,--
The first in wisdom and in war the foremost;
Him choose we as the leader of our people,
As arbiter and ruler of our tribe.
But here--
CATILINE.  [Calls down to them.]
--Here might and selfishness hold sway;--
Intrigue and craft are here the keys to power.
OLLOVICO.  Woe to us, brethren, woe!  He spies upon us.
AMBIORIX.  [To CATILINE.]
Is such the practice of the high-born Roman?
A woman's trick we hold it in our nation.
CATILINE.  [comes down on the road.]
Ah, have no fear;--spying is not my business;
By chance it was I heard your conversation.--
Come you from Allobrogia far away?
Justice you think to find in Rome?  Ah, never!
Turn home again!  Here tyranny holds sway,
And rank injustice lords it more than ever.
Republic to be sure it is in name;
And yet all men are slaves who cringe and cower,
Vassals involved in debt, who must acclaim
A venal senate--ruled by greed and power.
Gone is the social consciousness of old,
The magnanimity of former ages;--
Security and life are favors sold,
Which must be bargained for with hire and wages.
Not righteousness, but power here holds sway;
The noble man is lost among the gilded--
AMBIORIX.  But say,--who then are you to tear away
The pillars of the hope on which we builded?
