"Dear, dear! how short-sighted you all are to be discussing education
and plans for the future, when this unhappy child is so plainly marked
for the tomb," sighed Aunt Myra, with a lugubrious sniff and a solemn
wag of the funereal bonnet, which she refused to remove, being afflicted
with a chronic catarrh.
"Now, it is my opinion that the dear thing only wants freedom, rest, and
care. There is a look in her eyes that goes to my heart, for it shows
that she feels the need of what none of us can give her,--a mother,"
said Aunt Jessie, with tears in her own bright eyes at the thought of
her boys being left, as Rose was, to the care of others.
Uncle Alec, who had listened silently as each spoke, turned quickly
toward the last sister, and said, with a decided nod of approval,--
"You've got it, Jessie; and, with you to help me, I hope to make the
child feel that she is not quite fatherless and motherless."
"I'll do my best, Alec; and I think you _will_ need me, for, wise as you
are, you cannot understand a tender, timid little creature like Rose as
a woman can," said Mrs. Jessie, smiling back at him with a heart full of
motherly good-will.
"I cannot help feeling that _I_, who have had a daughter of my own, can
best bring up a girl; and I am _very_ much surprised that George did not
intrust her to me," observed Aunt Myra, with an air of melancholy
importance, for she was the only one who had given a daughter to the
family, and she felt that she had distinguished herself, though
ill-natured people said that she had dosed her darling to death.
"I never blamed him in the least, when I remember the perilous
experiments you tried with poor Carrie," began Mrs. Jane, in her hard
voice.
"Jane Campbell, I will _not_ hear a word! My sainted Caroline is a
sacred subject," cried Aunt Myra, rising as if to leave the room.
Dr. Alec detained her, feeling that he must define his position at once,
and maintain it manfully if he hoped to have any success in his new
undertaking.
"Now, my dear souls, don't let us quarrel and make Rose a bone of
contention,--though, upon my word, she _is_ almost a bone, poor little
lass! You have had her among you for a year, and done what you liked. I
cannot say that your success is great, but that is owing to too many
fingers in the pie. Now, I intend to try my way for a year, and if at
the end of it she is not in better trim than now, I'll give up the case,
and hand her over to some one else. That's fair, I think."
"She will not be here a year hence, poor darling, so no one need dread
future responsibility," said Aunt Myra, folding her black gloves as if
all ready for the funeral.
