"By Jupiter, Myra, you are enough to damp the ardor of a saint!" cried
Dr. Alec, with a sudden spark in his eyes. "Your croaking will worry
that child out of her wits, for she is an imaginative puss, and will
fret and fancy untold horrors. You have put it into her head that she
has no constitution, and she rather likes the idea. If she had not had a
pretty good one, she _would_ have been 'marked for the tomb' by this
time, at the rate you have been going on with her. I will not have any
interference,--please understand that; so just wash your hands of her,
and let me manage till I want help, then I'll ask for it."
"Hear, hear!" came from the corner where Uncle Mac was apparently wrapt
in slumber.
"You were appointed guardian, so we can do nothing. But I predict that
the girl will be spoilt, utterly spoilt," answered Mrs. Jane, grimly.
"Thank you, sister. I have an idea that if a woman can bring up two boys
as perfectly as you do yours, a man, if he devotes his whole mind to it,
may at least attempt as much with one girl," replied Dr. Alec, with a
humorous look that tickled the others immensely, for it was a well-known
fact in the family that Jane's boys were more indulged than all the
other lads put together.
"_I_ am quite easy, for I really do think that Alec will improve the
child's health; and by the time his year is out, it will be quite soon
enough for her to go to Madame Roccabella's and be finished off," said
Aunt Clara, settling her rings, and thinking, with languid satisfaction,
of the time when she could bring out a pretty and accomplished niece.
"I suppose you will stay here in the old place, unless you think of
marrying, and it's high time you did," put in Mrs. Jane, much nettled at
her brother's last hit.
"No, thank you. Come and have a cigar, Mac," said Dr. Alec, abruptly.
"Don't marry; women enough in the family already," muttered Uncle Mac;
and then the gentlemen hastily fled.
"Aunt Peace would like to see you all, she says," was the message Rose
brought before the ladies could begin again.
"Hectic, hectic!--dear me, dear me!" murmured Aunt Myra, as the shadow
of her gloomy bonnet fell upon Rose, and the stiff tips of a black
glove touched the cheek where the color deepened under so many eyes.
"I am glad these pretty curls are natural; they will be invaluable by
and by," said Aunt Clara, taking an observation with her head on one
side.
"Now that your uncle has come, I no longer expect you to review the
studies of the past year. I trust your time will not be _entirely_
wasted in frivolous sports, however," added Aunt Jane, sailing out of
the room with the air of a martyr.
Aunt Jessie said not a word, but kissed her little niece, with a look of
tender sympathy that made Rose cling to her a minute, and follow her
with grateful eyes as the door closed behind her.
