"You seem to remember some things about home wonderfully well, Harold."
"Never forget places and people--how they look and what can be done with
them. All the country round here lies like a map in my brain. A deuced
pretty country too; but the people were a stupid set of old Whigs and
Tories. I suppose they are much as they were."
"I am, at least, Harold. You are the first of your family that ever
talked of being a Radical. I did not think I was taking care of our old
oaks for that. I always thought Radicals' houses stood staring above
poor sticks of young trees and iron hurdles."
"Yes, but the Radical sticks are growing, mother, and half the Tory oaks
are rotting," said Harold, with gay carelessness. "You've arranged for
Jermyn to be early to-morrow?"
"He will be here to breakfast at nine. But I leave you to Hickes now; we
dine in an hour."
Mrs. Transome went away and shut herself in her own dressing-room. It
had come to pass now--this meeting with the son who had been the object
of so much longing; whom she had longed for before he was born, for whom
she had sinned, from whom she had wrenched herself with pain at their
parting, and whose coming again had been the one great hope of her
years. The moment was gone by; there had been no ecstasy, no gladness
even; hardly half an hour had passed, and few words had been spoken,
yet with that quickness in weaving new futures which belongs to women
whose actions have kept them in habitual fear of consequences, Mrs.
Transome thought she saw with all the clearness of demonstration that
her son's return had not been a good for her in the sense of making her
any happier.
She stood before a tall mirror, going close to it and looking at her
face with hard scrutiny, as if it were unrelated to herself. No elderly
face can be handsome, looked at in that way; every little detail is
startlingly prominent, and the effect of the whole is lost. She saw the
dried-up complexion, and the deep lines of bitter discontent about the
mouth.
"I am a hag!" she said to herself (she was accustomed to give her
thoughts a very sharp outline), "an ugly old woman who happens to be his
mother. That is what he sees in me, as I see a stranger in him. I shall
count for nothing. I was foolish to expect anything else."
She turned away from the mirror and walked up and down her room.
"What a likeness!" she said, in a loud whisper; "yet, perhaps, no one
will see it besides me."
She threw herself into a chair, and sat with a fixed look, seeing
nothing that was actually present, but inwardly seeing with painful
vividness what had been present with her a little more than thirty years
ago--the little round-limbed creature that had been leaning against her
knees, and stamping tiny feet, and looking up at her with gurgling
laughter. She had thought that the possession of this child would give
unity to her life, and make some gladness through the changing years
that would grow as fruit out of these early maternal caresses. But
nothing had come just as she had wished. The mother's early raptures had
lasted but a short time, and even while they lasted there had grown up
in the midst of them a hungry desire, like a black poisonous plant
feeding in the sunlight,--the desire that her first, rickety, ugly,
imbecile child should die, and leave room for her darling, of whom she
could be proud. Such desires make life a hideous lottery, where everyday
may turn up a blank; where men and women who have the softest beds and
the most delicate eating, who have a very large share of that sky and
earth which some are born to have no more of than the fraction to be got
in a crowded entry, yet grow haggard, fevered, and restless, like those
who watch in other lotteries. Day after day, year after year, had
yielded blanks; new cares had come, bringing other desires for results
quite beyond her grasp, which must also be watched for in the lottery;
and all the while the round-limbed pet had been growing into a strong
youth, who liked many things better than his mother's caresses, and who
had a much keener consciousness of his independent existence than of his
relation to her: the lizard's egg, that white rounded passive
prettiness, had become a brown, darting, determined lizard. The mother's
love is at first an absorbing delight, blunting all other sensibilities;
it is an expansion of the animal existence; it enlarges the imagined
range for self to move in: but in after years it can only continue to be
joy on the same terms as other long-lived love--that is, by much
suppression of self, and power of living in the experience of another.
Mrs. Transome had darkly felt the pressure of that unchangeable fact.
Yet she had clung to the belief that somehow the possession of this son
was the best thing she lived for; to believe otherwise would have made
her memory too ghastly a companion. Some time or other, by some means,
the estate she was struggling to save from the grasp of the law would be
Harold's. Somehow the hated Durfey, the imbecile eldest, who seemed to
have become tenacious of a despicable squandering life, would be got rid
of; vice might kill him. Meanwhile the estate was burdened: there was no
good prospect for any heir. Harold must go and make a career for himself
and this was what he was bent on, with a precocious clearness of
perception as to the conditions on which he could hope for any
advantages in life. Like most energetic natures, he had a strong faith
in his luck; he had been gay at their parting, and had promised to make
his fortune; and in spite of past disappointments, Harold's possible
fortune still made some ground for his mother to plant her hopes in. His
luck had not failed him; yet nothing had turned out according to her
expectations. Her life had been like a spoiled shabby pleasure-day, in
which the music and the processions are all missed, and nothing is left
at evening but the weariness of striving after what has been failed of.
Harold had gone with the Embassy to Constantinople, under the patronage
of a high relative, his mother's cousin; he was to be diplomatist, and
work his way upward in public life. But his luck had taken another
shape: he had saved the life of an Armenian banker, who in gratitude had
offered him a prospect which his practical mind had preferred to the
problematic promises of diplomacy and high-born cousinship. Harold had
become a merchant and banker at Smyrna; and let the years pass without
caring to find the possibility of visiting his early home, and had shown
no eagerness to make his life at all familiar to his mother, asking for
letters about England, but writing scantily about himself. Mrs. Transome
had kept up the habit of writing to her son, but gradually the
unfruitful years had dulled her hopes and yearnings; increasing
anxieties about money had worried her, and she was more sure of being
fretted by bad news about her dissolute eldest son than of hearing
anything to cheer her from Harold. She had begun to live merely in small
immediate cares and occupations, and like all eager-minded women who
advance in life without any activity of tenderness or any large
sympathy, she had contracted small rigid habits of thinking and acting,
she had her "ways" which must not be crossed, and had learned to fill up
the great void of life with giving small orders to tenants, insisting on
medicines for infirm cottagers, winning small triumphs in bargains and
personal economies, and parrying ill-natured remarks of Lady Debarry's
by lancet-edged epigrams. So her life had gone on till more than a year
ago, when that desire which had been so hungry when she was a blooming
young mother, was at last fulfilled--at last, when her hair was gray,
and her face looked bitter, restless, and unenjoying, like her life. The
news came from Jersey that Durfey, the imbecile son, was dead. _Now_
Harold was heir to the estate; now the wealth he had gained could
release the land from its burdens; now he would think it worth while to
return home. A change had come over her life, and the sunlight breaking
the clouds at evening was pleasant, though the sun must sink before
long. Hopes, affections, the sweeter part of her memories, started from
their wintry sleep, and it once more seemed a great good to have had a
second son who in some ways had cost her dearly. But again there were
conditions she had not reckoned on. When the good tidings had been sent
to Harold, and he had announced that he would return so soon as he could
wind up his affairs, he had for the first time informed his mother that
he had been married, that his Greek wife was no longer living, but that
he should bring home a little boy, the finest and most desirable of
heirs and grandsons. Harold seated in his distant Smyrna home considered
that he was taking a rational view of what things must have become by
this time at the old place in England, when he figured his mother as a
good elderly lady, who would necessarily be delighted with the
possession on any terms of a healthy grandchild, and would not mind
much about the particulars of a long-concealed marriage.
