Already the sound of wheels was loud upon the gravel. The momentary
surprise of seeing that it was only a post-chaise, without a servant or
much luggage, that was passing under the stone archway and then wheeling
round against the flight of stone steps, was at once merged in the sense
that there was a dark face under a red travelling-cap looking at her
from the window. She saw nothing else; she was not even conscious that
the small group of her own servants had mustered, or that old Hickes the
butler had come forward to open the chaise door. She heard herself
called "Mother!" and felt a light kiss on each cheek; but stronger than
all that sensation was the consciousness which no previous thought could
prepare her for, that this son who had come back to her was a stranger.
Three minutes before, she had fancied that, in spite of all changes
wrought by fifteen years of separation, she should clasp her son again
as she had done at their parting; but in the moment when their eyes met,
the sense of strangeness came upon her like a terror. It was not hard to
understand that she was agitated, and the son led her across the hall to
the sitting-room, closing the door behind them. Then he turned toward
her and said, smiling--
"You would not have known me, eh, mother?"
It was perhaps the truth. If she had seen him in a crowd, she might have
looked at him without recognition--not, however, without startled
wonder; for though the likeness to herself was no longer striking, the
years had overlaid it with another likeness which would have arrested
her. Before she answered him, his eyes, with a keen restlessness, as
unlike as possible to the lingering gaze of the portrait, had travelled
quickly over the room, alighting on her as she said--
"Everything is changed, Harold. I am an old woman, you see."
"But straighter and more upright than some of the young ones!" said
Harold; inwardly, however, feeling that age had made his mother's face
very anxious and eager. "The old women at Smyrna are like sacks. You've
not got clumsy and shapeless. How is it I have the trick of getting
fat?" (Here Harold lifted his arm and spread out his plump hand.) "I
remember my father was as thin as a herring. How is my father? Where is
he?"
Mrs. Transome just pointed to the curtained doorway, and let her son
pass through it alone. She was not given to tears: but now, under the
pressure of emotion that could find no other vent, they burst forth. She
took care that they should be silent tears, and before Harold came out
of the library again they were dried. Mrs. Transome had not the feminine
tendency to seek influence through pathos; she had been used to rule in
virtue of acknowledged superiority. The consciousness that she had to
make her son's acquaintance, and that her knowledge of the youth of
nineteen might help her little in interpreting the man of thirty-four,
had fallen like lead on her soul; but in this new acquaintance of theirs
she cared especially that her son, who had seen a strange world, should
feel that he was come home to a mother who was to be consulted on all
things, and who could supply his lack of the local experience necessary
to an English landholder. Her part in life had been that of the clever
sinner, and she was equipped with the views, the reasons, and the habits
which belonged to that character; life would have little meaning for her
if she were to be gently thrust aside as a harmless elderly woman. And
besides, there were secrets which her son must never know. So, by the
time Harold came from the library again, the traces of tears were not
discernible, except to a very careful observer. And he did not observe
his mother carefully; his eyes only glanced at her on their way to the
_North Loamshire Herald_, lying on the table near her, which he took up
with his left hand, as he said--
