CHAPTER II.
    A jolly parson of the good old stock,
    By birth a gentleman, yet homely too,
    Suiting his phrase to Hodge and Margery
    Whom he once christened, and has married since,
    A little lax in doctrine and in life.
    Not thinking God was captious in such things
    As what a man might drink on holidays,
    But holding true religion was to do
    As you'd be done by--which could never mean
    That he should preach three sermons in a week.
Harold Transome did not choose to spend the whole evening with his
mother. It was his habit to compress a great deal of effective
conversation into a short space of time, asking rapidly all the
questions he wanted to get answered, and diluting no subject with
irrelevancies, paraphrase, or repetitions. He volunteered no information
about himself and his past life at Smyrna, but answered pleasantly
enough, though briefly, whenever his mother asked for any detail. He was
evidently ill-satisfied as to his palate, trying red pepper to
everything, then asking if there were any relishing sauces in the house,
and when Hickes brought various home-filled bottles, trying several,
finding them failures, and finally falling back from his plate in
despair. Yet he remained good-humored, saying something to his father
now and then for the sake of being kind, and looking on with a pitying
shrug as he saw him watch Hickes cutting his food. Mrs. Transome thought
with some bitterness that Harold showed more feeling for her feeble
husband who had never cared in the least about him, than for her, who
had given him more than the usual share of mother's love. An hour after
dinner, Harold, who had already been turning over the leaves of his
mother's account-books, said--
"I shall just cross the park to the parsonage to see my uncle Lingon."
"Very well. He can answer more questions for you."
"Yes," said Harold, quite deaf to the innuendo, and accepting the words
as a simple statement of the fact. "I want to hear all about the game
and the North Loamshire hunt. I'm fond of sport; we had a great deal of
it at Smyrna, and it keeps down my fat."
The Reverend John Lingon became very talkative over his second bottle of
port, which was opened on his nephew's arrival. He was not curious about
the manners of Smyrna, or about Harold's experience, but he unbosomed
himself very freely as to what he himself liked and disliked, which of
the farmers he suspected of killing the foxes, what game he had bagged
that very morning, what spot he would recommend as a new cover, and the
comparative flatness of all existing sport compared with cock-fighting,
under which Old England had been prosperous and glorious, while, so far
as he could see, it had gained little by the abolition of a practice
which sharpened the faculties of men, gratified the instincts of the
fowl, and carried out the designs of heaven in its admirable device of
spurs. From these main topics, which made his points of departure and
return, he rambled easily enough at any new suggestion or query; so that
when Harold got home at a late hour, he was conscious of having gathered
from amidst the pompous full-toned triviality of his uncle's chat some
impressions, which were of practical importance. Among the rector's
dislikes, it appeared, was Mr. Matthew Jermyn.
