"Your father has slept there for years. He will be like a distracted
insect, and never know where to go, if you alter the track he has to
walk in."
"That's a pity. I hate going up-stairs."
"There is the steward's room: it is not used, and might be turned into a
bedroom. I can't offer you my room, for I sleep up-stairs." (Mrs.
Transome's tongue could be a whip upon occasion, but the lash had not
fallen on a sensitive spot.)
"No; I'm determined not to sleep up-stairs. We'll see about the
steward's room to-morrow, and I dare say I shall find a closet of some
sort for Dominic. It's a nuisance he had to stay behind, for I shall
have nobody to cook for me. Ah, there's the old river I used to fish in.
I often thought, when I was at Smyrna, that I would buy a park with a
river through it as much like the Lapp as possible. Gad, what fine oaks
those are opposite! Some of them must come down, though."
"I've held every tree sacred on the demesne, as I told you, Harold. I
trusted to your getting the estate some time, and releasing it; and I
determined to keep it worth releasing. A park without fine timber is no
better than a beauty without teeth and hair."
"Bravo, mother!" said Harold, putting his hand on her shoulder. "Ah,
you've had to worry yourself about things that don't properly belong to
a woman--my father being weakly. We'll set all that right. You shall
have nothing to do now but to be grandmamma on satin cushions."
"You must excuse me from the satin cushions. That is a part of the old
woman's duty I am not prepared for. I am used to be chief bailiff, and
to sit in the saddle two or three hours every day. There are two farms
on our hands besides the Home Farm."
"Phew-ew! Jermyn manages the estate badly, then. That will not last
under _my_ reign," said Harold, turning on his heel and feeling in his
pockets for the keys of his portmanteaus, which had been brought up.
"Perhaps when you've been in England a little longer," said Mrs.
Transome, coloring as if she had been a girl, "you will understand
better the difficulty there is in letting farms these times."
"I understand the difficulty perfectly, mother. To let farms, a man must
have the sense to see what will make them inviting to farmers, and to
get sense supplied on demand is just the most difficult transaction I
know of. I suppose if I ring there's some fellow who can act as valet
and learn to attend to my hookah?"
"There is Hickes the butler, and there is Jabez the footman; those are
all the men in the house. They were here when you left."
"Oh, I remember Jabez--he was a dolt. I'll have old Hickes. He was a
neat little machine of a butler; his words used to come like the clicks
of an engine. He must be an old machine now, though."
