"Gad! what a wreck poor father is! Paralysis, eh? Terribly shrunk and
shaken--crawls about among his books and beetles as usual, though. Well,
it's a slow and easy death. But he's not much over sixty-five, is he?"
"Sixty-seven, counting by birthdays; but your father was born old, I
think," said Mrs. Transome, a little flushed with the determination not
to show any unasked for feeling. Her son did not notice her. All the
time he had been speaking his eyes had been running down the columns of
the newspaper.
"But your little boy, Harold--where is he? How is it he has not come
with you?"
"Oh, I left him behind, in town," said Harold, still looking at the
paper. "My man Dominic will bring him, with the rest of the luggage. Ah,
I see it is young Debarry, and not my old friend Sir Maximus, who is
offering himself as candidate for North Loamshire."
"Yes. You did not answer me when I wrote to you to London about your
standing. There is no other Tory candidate spoken of, and you would
have all the Debarry interest."
"I hardly think that," said Harold, significantly.
"Why? Jermyn says a Tory candidate can never be got in without it."
"But I shall not be a Tory candidate."
Mrs. Transome felt something like an electric shock.
"What then?" she said, almost sharply. "You will not call yourself a
Whig?"
"God forbid! I'm a Radical."
Mrs. Transome's limbs tottered; she sank into a chair. Here was a
distinct confirmation of the vague but strong feeling that her son was a
stranger to her. Here was a revelation to which it seemed almost as
impossible to adjust her hopes and notions of a dignified life as if her
son had said that he had been converted to Mahometanism at Smyrna, and
had four wives, instead of one son, shortly to arrive under the care of
Dominic. For the moment she had a sickening feeling that it was of no
use that the long-delayed good fortune had come at last--all of no use
though the unloved Durfey was dead and buried, and though Harold had
come home with plenty of money. There were rich Radicals, she was aware,
as there were rich Jews and Dissenters, but she had never thought of
them as county people. Sir Francis Burdett had been generally regarded
as a madman. It was better to ask no questions, but silently to prepare
herself for anything else there might be to come.
"Will you go to your rooms, Harold, and see if there is anything you
would like to have altered?"
"Yes, let us go," said Harold, throwing down the newspaper, in which he
had been rapidly reading almost every advertisement while his mother had
been going through her sharp inward struggle. "Uncle Lingon is on the
bench still, I see," he went on, as he followed her across the hall; "is
he at home--will he be here this evening?"
"He says you must go to the rectory when you want to see him. You must
remember you have come back to a family with old-fashioned notions. Your
uncle thought I ought to have you to myself in the first hour or two. He
remembered that I had not seen my son for fifteen years."
