"Our laws are few and simple.  You must each day gather your share of
honey, see that your cell is sweet and fresh, as you yourself must be;
rise with the sun, and with him to sleep.  You must harm no flower in
doing your work, nor take more than your just share of honey; for they
so kindly give us food, it were most cruel to treat them with aught
save gentleness and gratitude.  Now will you stay with us, and learn
what even mortals seek to know, that labor brings true happiness?"
And Thistle said he would stay and dwell with them; for he was tired
of wandering alone, and thought he might live here till Lily-Bell
should come, or till he was weary of the kind-hearted bees.  Then they
took away his gay garments, and dressed him like themselves, in the
black velvet cloak with golden bands across his breast.
"Now come with us," they said.  So forth into the green fields
they went, and made their breakfast among the dewy flowers; and then
till the sun set they flew from bud to blossom, singing as they went;
and Thistle for a while was happier than when breaking flowers and
harming gentle birds.
But he soon grew tired of working all day in the sun, and longed to be
free again.  He could find no pleasure with the industrious bees, and
sighed to be away with his idle friends, the butterflies; so while the
others worked he slept or played, and then, in haste to get his share,
he tore the flowers, and took all they had saved for their own food.
Nor was this all; he told such pleasant tales of the life he led
before he came to live with them, that many grew unhappy and
discontented, and they who had before wished no greater joy than
the love and praise of their kind Queen, now disobeyed and blamed her
for all she had done for them.
Long she bore with their unkind words and deeds; and when at length
she found it was the ungrateful Fairy who had wrought this trouble in
her quiet kingdom, she strove, with sweet, forgiving words, to show
him all the wrong he had done; but he would not listen, and still went
on destroying the happiness of those who had done so much for him.
Then, when she saw that no kindness could touch his heart, she said:--
"Thistledown, we took you in, a friendless stranger, fed and clothed
you, and made our home as pleasant to you as we could; and in return
for all our care, you have brought discontent and trouble to my
subjects, grief and care to me.  I cannot let my peaceful kingdom
be disturbed by you; therefore go and seek another home.  You may find
other friends, but none will love you more than we, had you been
worthy of it; so farewell."  And the doors of the once happy home
he had disturbed were closed behind him.
