Manders. Nor can I entirely overlook the difficult--indeed, I may say,
painful--position I might possibly be placed in. In the best circles in
town the matter of this Orphanage is attracting a great deal of
attention. Indeed the Orphanage is to some extent built for the benefit
of the town too, and it is to be hoped that it may result in the
lowering of our poor-rate by a considerable amount. But as I have been
your adviser in the matter and have taken charge of the business side
of it, I should be afraid that it would be I that spiteful persons
would attack first of all.
Mrs. Alving. Yes, you ought not to expose yourself to that.
Manders. Not to mention the attacks that would undoubtedly be made upon
me in certain newspapers and reviews.
Mrs. Alving. Say no more about it, dear Mr. Manders; that quite decides
it.
Manders. Then you don't wish it to be insured?
Mrs. Alving. No, we will give up the idea.
Manders (leaning back in his chair). But suppose, now, that some
accident happened?--one can never tell--would you be prepared to make
good the damage?
Mrs. Alving. No; I tell you quite plainly I would not do so under any
circumstances.
Manders. Still, you know, Mrs. Alving--after all, it is a serious
responsibility that we are taking upon ourselves.
Mrs. Alving. But do you think we can do otherwise?
Manders. No, that's just it. We really can't do otherwise. We ought not
to expose ourselves to a mistaken judgment; and we have no right to do
anything that will scandalise the community.
Mrs. Alving. You ought not to, as a clergyman, at any rate.
Manders. And, what is more, I certainly think that we may count upon
our enterprise being attended by good fortune--indeed, that it will be
under a special protection.
Mrs. Alving. Let us hope so, Mr. Manders.
Manders. Then we will leave it alone?
Mrs. Alving. Certainly.
Manders. Very good. As you wish. (Makes a note.) No insurance, then.
Mrs. Alving. It's a funny thing that you should just have happened to
speak about that today--
Manders. I have often meant to ask you about it.
Mrs. Alving. --because yesterday we very nearly had a fire up there.
Manders. Do you mean it!
Mrs. Alving. Oh, as a matter of fact it was nothing of any consequence.
Some shavings in the carpenter's shop caught fire.
Manders. Where Engstrand works?
Mrs. Alving. Yes. They say he is often so careless with matches.
Manders. He has so many things on his mind, poor fellow--so many
anxieties. Heaven be thanked, I am told he is really making an effort
to live a blameless life.
Mrs. Alving. Really? Who told you so?
Manders. He assured me himself that it is so. He's good workman, too.
Mrs. Alving. Oh, yes, when he is sober.
Manders. Ah, that sad weakness of his! But the pain in his poor leg
often drives him to it, he tells me. The last time he was in town, I
was really quite touched by him. He came to my house and thanked me so
gratefully for getting him work here, where he could have the chance of
being with Regina.
