Mrs. Alving. No, indeed it wouldn't.
Manders (persistently). And to think that the authorities tolerate such
things! That they are allowed to go on, openly! (Turns to MRS. ALVING.)
Had I so little reason, then, to be sadly concerned about your son? In
circles where open immorality is rampant--where, one may say, it is
honoured--
Oswald. Let me tell you this, Mr. Manders. I have been a constant
Sunday guest at one or two of these "irregular" households.
Manders. On Sunday, too!
Oswald. Yes, that is the day of leisure. But never have I heard one
objectionable word there, still less have I ever seen anything that
could be called immoral. No; but do you know when and where I have met
with immorality in artists' circles?
Manders. No, thank heaven, I don't!
Oswald. Well, then, I shall have the pleasure of telling you. I have
met with it when someone or other of your model husbands and fathers
have come out there to have a bit of a look round on their own account,
and have done the artists the honour of looking them up in their humble
quarters. Then we had a chance of learning something, I can tell you.
These gentlemen were able to instruct us about places and things that
we had never so much as dreamt of.
Manders. What? Do you want me to believe that honourable men when they
get away from home will--
Oswald. Have you never, when these same honourable men come home again,
heard them deliver themselves on the subject of the prevalence of
immorality abroad?
Manders. Yes, of course, but--
Mrs. Alving. I have heard them, too.
Oswald. Well, you can take their word for it, unhesitatingly. Some of
them are experts in the matter. (Putting his hands to his head.) To
think that the glorious freedom of the beautiful life over there should
be so besmirched!
Mrs. Alving. You mustn't get too heated, Oswald; you gain nothing by
that.
Oswald. No, you are quite right, mother. Besides, it isn't good for me.
It's because I am so infernally tired, you know. I will go out and take
a turn before dinner. I beg your pardon, Mr. Manders. It is impossible
for you to realise the feeling; but it takes me that way (Goes out by
the farther door on the right.)
Mrs. Alving. My poor boy!
Manders. You may well say so. This is what it has brought him to! (MRS.
ALVING looks at him, but does not speak.) He called himself the
prodigal son. It's only too true, alas--only too true! (MRS. ALVING
looks steadily at him.) And what do you say to all this?
Mrs. Alving. I say that Oswald was right in every single word he said.
Manders. Right? Right? To hold such principles as that?
Mrs. Alving. In my loneliness here I have come to just the same
opinions as he, Mr. Manders. But I have never presumed to venture upon
such topics in conversation. Now there is no need; my boy shall speak
for me.
