We feel surprised at Mr James' cognisance of anything so second-rate as
this Decadent Movement of the late eighties and early nineties, because
most of us basely judge it by its lack of worldly success instead of by
its moral mission. The elect of the movement, if one delves in the
memory of older Londoners, were certainly silly young men who were
careful about the laundering of their evening shirts and who tried to
introduce the tone of public-school life into ordinary society. And it
is true that for all their talk of art they produced nothing but one
good farce and a cartload of such weak, sweet verse as schoolgirls copy
into exercise-books, and that from this small effort they sank
exhausted down to prison, drink, madness, suicide; and struck whatever
other notes there be in the descending scale of personal disgrace. And
yet, for all its fruitlessness, that prattle about art gave them a valid
claim on our respect. Never had beauty been so forgotten; style was
poisoned at the fount of thought by Carlyle, whose sentences were
confused disasters like railway accidents, and by Herbert Spencer, who
wrote as though he were the offspring of two _Times_ leaders; among
novelists only Robert Louis Stevenson loved words, and he had too
prudent a care to water down his gruel to suit sick England's stomach;
and in criticism Andrew Lang, who had admired Scott and Dickens in his
schooldays and was not going to let himself down by admiring anybody
nearer his own generation, greeted every exponent of the real with a
high piercing northern sneer. It was of inestimable value that it should
be cried, no matter in how pert a voice, that words are jewels which,
wisely set, make by their shining mental light. That the cry could not
save the young men who raised it, bore out their contention of the
time's need for it; if they, seeking new beauty, could but celebrate the
old dingy sins of towns, it showed in what a base age they had been
bred. And if they could not save themselves they saved others. Arnold
Bennett and H. G. Wells set off in the nineties in a world encouragingly
full of talk about good writing. Conrad, mouthing his difficult strange
tales about the sea, found an audience that would sit hushed. And in the
brain of one who, being then between forty and fifty years of age, might
have been thought inaccessible to new conceptions of the art that had
for so long preoccupied him, there passed important thoughts.
"That idea I picked up when I corrected George Eliot's proofs, oh! so
long ago!" one can imagine Mr James saying, "that idea that art must be
ballasted by didacticism can't be true for me. I've fined it down, in my
reading of the French, to an opinion that the artist should use his
fancy work to decorate useful articles; but still it isn't true for me.
For I must, before I can decorate them, make the useful articles of
thought my own, and they are just the one thing that for all my mental
wealth I can't acquire. I see them often enough in the shop-windows--the
moral and political and philosophical problems so prodigiously produced
by my age--and many times have tried the door, but to my touch it never
opens, so I have to describe them as I see them through the glass,
without having felt or known them with the intimacy of possession! It's
true I did once deal with a situation in the history of two peoples, but
I see now that in its international character there was an intimation
that it was the last with which I should ever effectively concern
myself. For I'm destructively not national; my mind is engraved with the
sights and social customs of half-a-dozen countries, and with the deep
traditions of not one, and how can I deal deeply with the conduct of a
people when I haven't a notion of the quality or quantity of the
traditions which are, after all, its mainspring? It seems to me that
the cry of "Art for Art's sake," which is being raised by those young
men, and which certainly isn't true for _them_, may be true for _me_.
What if henceforth I release the winged steed of my recording art from
the obligation of dragging up the steep hill of my inaptitude the dray
filled with the heavy goods which I have amassed in my perhaps so
mistaken desire for a respectably weighty subject, and let the poor
thing just beautifully soar?"
