That Mr James continued to write about Americans in Europe long after
their common motive and their individual adventures had ceased to excite
his wonder or his sympathy, was the manifestation of a certain delusion
about his art which was ultimately to do him a mischief. He believed
that if one _knew_ a subject one could write about it; and since there
was no aspect of the international situation with which he was not
familiar, he could not see why the description of these aspects should
not easily make art. The profound truth that an artist should feel
passion for his subject was naturally distasteful to one who wanted to
live wholly without violence even of the emotions; a preference for
passionless detachment was at that date the mode in French literature,
which was the only literature that he studied with any attention. The de
Goncourts, Zola, and even de Maupassant thought that an artist ought to
be able to lift any subject into art by his treatment, just as an
advertising agent ought to be able to "float" any article into
popularity by his posters. But human experience, which includes a
realisation of the deadness of most of the de Goncourts' and Zola's
productions, proves the contrary. Unless a subject is congenial to the
character of the artist the subconscious self will not wake up and
reward the busy conscious mind by distributions of its hoarded riches in
the form of the right word, the magic phrase, the clarifying incident.
Why are books about ideas so commonly bad, since the genius of M.
Anatole France and Mr Wells have proved that they need not be so, if it
be not that the majority of people reserve passion for their personal
relationships and therefore never "feel" an idea with the sensitive
finger-tips of affection?
The absence of this necessary attitude to his subject explains in part
the tenuity of Mr James' later novels on the international situation;
but there is also another element that irritates present-day readers and
makes the texture of the life represented seem poor. That element, which
is not peculiar to Mr James, but is a part of the social atmosphere of
his time, is the persistent presentation of woman not as a human, but as
a sexual being. One can learn nothing of the heroine's beliefs and
character for the hullabaloo that has been set up because she has come
in too late or gone out too early or omitted to provide herself with
that figure of questionable use--for the dove-like manners of the young
men forbid the thought that she was there to protect the girl from
assault, and the mild tongues of the young ladies make it unlikely that
the duel of the sexes was then so bitter that they required an
umpire--the chaperon. It appears that the young woman of that period
could get through the world only by perpetually jumping through hoops
held up to her by society, a method of progression which was more suited
to circus girls than to persons of dignity, and which sometimes caused
nasty falls. There is nothing more humiliating to women in all fiction
than the end of _A London Life_, where the heroine, appalled at having
been left in an opera box alone with a young man, turns to him and begs
him, although she knows well that he does not love her, to marry her and
save her good name. Purity and innocence are excellent things, but a
world in which they have to be guarded by such cramping contrivances of
conduct is as ridiculous as a heaven where the saints all go about with
their haloes protected by mackintosh covers.
