   Hum. Say, what art thou talk'st of Kings & Queens?
  King. More then I seeme, and lesse then I was born to:
A man at least, for lesse I should not be:
And men may talke of Kings, and why not I?
  Hum. I, but thou talk'st, as if thou wer't a King
   King. Why so I am (in Minde) and that's enough
   Hum. But if thou be a King, where is thy Crowne?
  King. My Crowne is in my heart, not on my head:
Not deck'd with Diamonds, and Indian stones:
Nor to be seene: my Crowne, is call'd Content,
A Crowne it is, that sildome Kings enioy
   Hum. Well, if you be a King crown'd with Content,
Your Crowne Content, and you, must be contented
To go along with vs. For (as we thinke)
You are the king King Edward hath depos'd:
And we his subiects, sworne in all Allegeance,
Will apprehend you, as his Enemie
   King. But did you neuer sweare, and breake an Oath
   Hum. No, neuer such an Oath, nor will not now
   King. Where did you dwell when I was K[ing]. of England?
  Hum. Heere in this Country, where we now remaine
   King. I was annointed King at nine monthes old,
My Father, and my Grandfather were Kings:
And you were sworne true Subiects vnto me:
And tell me then, haue you not broke your Oathes?
  Sin. No, for we were Subiects, but while you wer king
  King. Why? Am I dead? Do I not breath a Man?
Ah simple men, you know not what you sweare:
Looke, as I blow this Feather from my Face,
And as the Ayre blowes it to me againe,
Obeying with my winde when I do blow,
And yeelding to another, when it blowes,
Commanded alwayes by the greater gust:
Such is the lightnesse of you, common men.
But do not breake your Oathes, for of that sinne,
My milde intreatie shall not make you guiltie.
Go where you will, the king shall be commanded,
And be you kings, command, and Ile obey
   Sinklo. We are true Subiects to the king,
King Edward
   King. So would you be againe to Henrie,
If he were seated as king Edward is
   Sinklo. We charge you in Gods name & the Kings,
To go with vs vnto the Officers
   King. In Gods name lead, your Kings name be obeyd,
And what God will, that let your King performe.
And what he will, I humbly yeeld vnto.
Exeunt.
Enter K[ing]. Edward, Gloster, Clarence, Lady Gray.
  King. Brother of Gloster, at S[aint]. Albons field
This Ladyes Husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slaine,
His Land then seiz'd on by the Conqueror,
Her suit is now, to repossesse those Lands,
Which wee in Iustice cannot well deny,
Because in Quarrell of the House of Yorke,
The worthy Gentleman did lose his Life
   Rich. Your Highnesse shall doe well to graunt her suit:
It were dishonor to deny it her
   King. It were no lesse, but yet Ile make a pawse
