This last conception of Europe is the subject of _Roderick Hudson_
(1875). _Roderick Hudson_ is not a good book. It throws a light upon the
lack of attention given at that period to the art of writing that within
a few years of each other two men of great genius--Thomas Hardy and
Henry James--wrote in their thirties first novels spoilt by technical
blemishes of a sort that the most giftless modern miss with a
subscription to Mudie's would never commit in her first literary
experiment. _Roderick Hudson_ is wooden, it is crammed with local colour
like a schoolmistress's bedroom full of photographs of Rome, it has a
plain boiled suet heroine called Mary. But its idea is magnificent. An
American of fortune takes Hudson, who has already shown talent as a
sculptor, from his stool in a lawyer's office in Northampton,
Massachusetts, and sets him up in a studio in Rome. It is the fear of
old Mrs Hudson and of Mary, his fiancee, that European life will be too
soft for him. But the very opposite occurs; it is he who is too soft for
European life. The business of art means not only lounging under the
pines of the Villa Ludovisi and chiselling the noble substance of
Carrara marble; it means also the painful toil of creation, which
demands from the artist an austerer renunciation of every grossness than
was ever expected of any law-abiding citizen of Northampton, which
sends a man naked and alone to awful moments which, if he be strong,
give him spiritual strength, but if he be weak heap on him the black
weakness of neurasthenia. And when that has turned him into a raw, hurt,
raging creature he is further snared by the loveliness of Christina
Light, who is characteristically European in that her circumstances have
not the same clear beauty as her face. She is being hawked over the
Continent to find a rich husband by her mother and a Cavaliere who is
really her father, and this ugly girlhood has so corrupted her vigorous
spirit that the young American's courtship provokes from her nothing but
eccentric favours or perverse insults. After the collapse of his art and
his love Roderick falls over a precipice in a too minutely described
Switzerland, hurled by a _denouement_ which has inspired Mr James to one
of his broadest jokes. In the first edition Roderick, on hearing that,
while he has been vexing his benefactor with his moods, that gentleman
has been manfully repressing a passion for Mary, exclaims, "It's like
something in a novel!" which Mr James in the definitive edition has
altered to, "It's like something in a bad novel!"
This conception of Europe as a complex organism which would have no use,
or only a cruel use, for those bred by the simple organism of America,
animates _Four Meetings_ (1877), that exquisite short story which came
first of all of the many masterpieces that Mr James was to produce. It
is the tale of a little schoolmistress who, having long nourished a
passion for Europe upon such slender intimations as photographs of the
Castle of Chillon, at last collects a sum for the trip, is met at Havre
by a cousin, one of those Americans on whom Continental life has acted
as a solvent of all decent moral tissues, and is tricked out of her
money by his story of a runaway marriage with a Countess; returns to New
England hoping to "see something of this dear old Europe yet," and has
that hope ironically fulfilled by the descent upon her for life of the
said Countess, who is so distinctly "something of this dear old Europe"
that the very sight of her transports the travelled recounter of the
story to "some dusky landing before a shabby Parisian _quatrieme_--to an
open door revealing a greasy ante-chamber, and to Madame, leaning over
the banisters, while she holds a faded dressing-gown together and bawls
down to the portress to bring up her coffee." It is one of the saddest
stories in the world, and one of the cleverest. There is not one of its
simple phrases but has its beautiful bearing on the subject, and in the
treatment of emotional values one sees that the essays on _French Poets
and Novelists_ (1878), which for some years he had been sending to
America with the excited air of a missionary, were the notes of an
attentive pupil. "Detachment" was the lesson that that period preached
in its reaction against the George Sand method, whereby the author
rolled through his pages locked in an embrace with his subject. We have
forgotten its real significance, so frequently has it been used as an
excuse for the treatment of emotional situations with encyclopaedic
detail of circumstance and not a grain of emotional realisation, but
here we can recover it. The author's pity for the schoolmistress is
never allowed to make his Countess sinister instead of gross, and his
sense of the comic in the Countess is never allowed to make the
schoolmistress's woe more dreary; the situation stands as solid and has
as many aspects as it would have in life.
