Enter Gabriel.
But stay, what Newes? Why comm'st thou in such
poste?
  Gabriel. The Queene,
With all the Northerne Earles and Lords,
Intend here to besiege you in your Castle.
She is hard by, with twentie thousand men:
And therefore fortifie your Hold, my Lord
   Yorke. I, with my Sword.
What? think'st thou, that we feare them?
Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me,
My Brother Mountague shall poste to London.
Let Noble Warwicke, Cobham, and the rest,
Whom we haue left Protectors of the King,
With powrefull Pollicie strengthen themselues,
And trust not simple Henry, nor his Oathes
   Mount. Brother, I goe: Ile winne them, feare it not.
And thus most humbly I doe take my leaue.
Exit Mountague.
Enter Mortimer, and his Brother.
  York. Sir Iohn, and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine Vnckles,
You are come to Sandall in a happie houre.
The Armie of the Queene meane to besiege vs
   Iohn. Shee shall not neede, wee'le meete her in the
field
   Yorke. What, with fiue thousand men?
  Richard. I, with fiue hundred, Father, for a neede.
A Woman's generall: what should we feare?
A March afarre off.
  Edward. I heare their Drummes:
Let's set our men in order,
And issue forth, and bid them Battaile straight
   Yorke. Fiue men to twentie: though the oddes be great,
I doubt not, Vnckle, of our Victorie.
Many a Battaile haue I wonne in France,
When as the Enemie hath beene tenne to one:
Why should I not now haue the like successe?
Alarum. Exit.
Enter Rutland, and his Tutor.
  Rutland. Ah, whither shall I flye, to scape their hands?
Ah Tutor, looke where bloody Clifford comes.
Enter Clifford.
  Clifford. Chaplaine away, thy Priesthood saues thy life.
As for the Brat of this accursed Duke,
Whose Father slew my Father, he shall dye
   Tutor. And I, my Lord, will beare him company
   Clifford. Souldiers, away with him
   Tutor. Ah Clifford, murther not this innocent Child,
Least thou be hated both of God and Man.
Enter.
  Clifford. How now? is he dead alreadie?
Or is it feare, that makes him close his eyes?
Ile open them
   Rutland. So looks the pent-vp Lyon o're the Wretch,
That trembles vnder his deuouring Pawes:
And so he walkes, insulting o're his Prey,
And so he comes, to rend his Limbes asunder.
Ah gentle Clifford, kill me with thy Sword,
And not with such a cruell threatning Looke.
Sweet Clifford heare me speake, before I dye:
I am too meane a subiect for thy Wrath,
Be thou reueng'd on men, and let me liue
   Clifford. In vaine thou speak'st, poore Boy:
My Fathers blood hath stopt the passage
Where thy words should enter
   Rutland. Then let my Fathers blood open it againe,
He is a man, and Clifford cope with him
   Clifford. Had I thy Brethren here, their liues and thine
Were not reuenge sufficient for me:
No, if I digg'd vp thy fore-fathers Graues,
And hung their rotten Coffins vp in Chaynes,
It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart.
The sight of any of the House of Yorke,
Is as a furie to torment my Soule:
And till I root out their accursed Line,
And leaue not one aliue, I liue in Hell.
Therefore-
  Rutland. Oh let me pray, before I take my death:
To thee I pray; sweet Clifford pitty me
