And from this portal the book goes on to incidents and persons not less
exquisite but still disconcertingly mere portals. It is as though in a
mad dream one found oneself passing through the arch in the mellow
redness of Hampton Court and straightway emerged on the colonnade of St
Paul's, through whose little swing-doors one surprisingly stepped to the
prim front of Kensington Palace. There is M. Poupin, the exiled
Communist who cannot communicate with the world, or the moustached
female companion with whom he dwells in a scrupulously unmarried state,
save by platitudes concerning the social organisation: "I'm suffering
extremely, but we must all suffer so long as the social question is so
abominably, so iniquitously neglected," is his way of intimating a sore
throat. There is poor Lady Aurora Langrish, the aristocratic precursor
of the sad Miss Huxtables in _The Madras House_: "My father isn't rich,
and there's only one of us, Eva, married, and we're not at all
handsome.... They go into the country all the autumn, all the winter,
when there's no one here (except three or four millions) and the rain
drips, drips, drips from the trees in the big dull park where my people
live, and nothing to do but to go out with three or four others in
mackintoshes...." There is dry old Mr Vetch who plays the fiddle in the
orchestra at night and fills all the rest of the empty day with love for
Hyacinth; and there is Captain Sholto, the Piccadilly swell; and Miss
Hennings, the sales-lady, and half-a-dozen admirable others casually
affixed by the stretched string of circumstance or the glue of
coincidence. And quite the preciousest "piece" in the collection is the
account of how the Princess Casamassima, who is Christina Light of
_Roderick Hudson_, grown to perilous maturity of beauty and perversity,
calls young Hyacinth to her country house, and there in the beechy park
and flowery lanes makes him talk of the plots against the rich which
later are to cause his death, and brings him nearer to it by lifting a
face wonderfully pale and pure with enthusiasm. It is so like that
Titian in the Prado which shows, against a window looking on a park
where lovers walk in golden air under silver poplars, Venus lying on a
satin couch while a young man makes music for her at an organ; her eyes
are softly intent, and the youth thinks she is suspended over the world
in his music, but really she is brooding on the whiteness of his skin
beneath his black beard. That likeness suggests that _The Princess
Casamassima_ should be taken, not as a novel, but as the small, fine
picture gallery that Mr James thought fit to add to his mental palace,
already so rich in mere sane living rooms.
It is unpleasant to travel in a runaway motor-car, even if it ultimately
spills one into a rose-garden, and when Mr James produced a picture
gallery when he had intended a grave study of social differences, he was
in much that case. But already in _The Author of Beltraffio_ (1884) he
had shown his awareness of a movement which had started with the
intention of destroying both Christian morality and rationalism, and
otherwise making us fearfully gay, and which actually achieved the
slight mitigation of the offensiveness of plumbers' shop windows and the
recovery by Mr Henry James of control over his machine. That story is
not one of Mr James' best; the author makes his readers regard his scene
through so small a peephole that even the characters who are to be
conceived as above all retiring have to come grossly near if their
audience is to make anything of the drama at all. The theme is that an
author's wife who considers her husband's books objectionable lets her
child die rather than that he should grow up in the companionship of one
so utterly without reserve; yet, since the tale is told by a total
stranger who is visiting them for the week-end, she has necessarily to
behave with a lack of reserve that makes her imputed motive incredible.
The special value of the story lies in the moments when the author of
_Beltraffio_, whose affectation of a velveteen coat and a remote foreign
air makes us desire to scream out to the weekend visitor that he is
being fooled, and this is no writer but an artistic photographer,
remarks with some complacency that to the conventional he appears "no
better than an ancient Greek" and professes a thirst for "the
cultivation of beauty without reserve or precautions." Our happy
generation cannot understand these phrases which doubtless had their
salutary meaning for that distant day when England fed herself on so low
a diet that _Jude the Obscure_ seemed to her a maddening draught. But
they interest us by showing that even Mr James, who ordinarily turned
aside with so chill a wince from the ridiculous, had exposed his
consciousness to the aesthetic movement which had been remotely
engendered by Leigh Hunt's Cockney crow of joy at Italy and afterwards
fostered by Ruskin as one of his wild repartees to the railway train,
and which was then being given the middle-class touch by Oscar Wilde.
