   Prince. And thou a naturall Coward, without instinct
   Falst. I deny your Maior: if you will deny the
Sherife, so: if not, let him enter. If I become not a Cart
as well as another man, a plague on my bringing vp: I
hope I shall as soone be strangled with a Halter, as another
   Prince. Goe hide thee behinde the Arras, the rest
walke vp aboue. Now my Masters, for a true Face and
good Conscience
   Falst. Both which I haue had: but their date is out,
and therefore Ile hide me.
Enter.
  Prince. Call in the Sherife.
Enter Sherife and the Carrier.
  Prince. Now Master Sherife, what is your will with
mee?
  She. First pardon me, my Lord. A Hue and Cry hath
followed certaine men vnto this house
   Prince. What men?
  She. One of them is well knowne, my gracious Lord,
a grosse fat man
   Car. As fat as Butter
   Prince. The man, I doe assure you, is not heere,
For I my selfe at this time haue imploy'd him:
And Sherife, I will engage my word to thee,
That I will by to morrow Dinner time,
Send him to answere thee, or any man,
For any thing he shall be charg'd withall:
And so let me entreat you, leaue the house
   She. I will, my Lord: there are two Gentlemen
Haue in this Robberie lost three hundred Markes
   Prince. It may be so: if he haue robb'd these men,
He shall be answerable: and so farewell
   She. Good Night, my Noble Lord
   Prince. I thinke it is good Morrow, is it not?
  She. Indeede, my Lord, I thinke it be two a Clocke.
Enter.
  Prince. This oyly Rascall is knowne as well as Poules:
goe call him forth
   Peto. Falstaffe? fast asleepe behinde the Arras, and
snorting like a Horse
   Prince. Harke, how hard he fetches breath: search his
Pockets.
He searcheth his Pockets, and findeth certaine Papers.
  Prince. What hast thou found?
  Peto. Nothing but Papers, my Lord
   Prince. Let's see, what be they? reade them
   Peto. Item, a Capon. ii.s.ii.d.
Item, Sawce iiii.d.
Item, Sacke, two Gallons. v.s.viii.d.
Item, Anchoues and Sacke after Supper. ii.s.vi.d.
Item, Bread. ob
   Prince. O monstrous, but one halfe penny-worth of
Bread to this intollerable deale of Sacke? What there is
else, keepe close, wee'le reade it at more aduantage: there
let him sleepe till day. Ile to the Court in the Morning:
Wee must all to the Warres, and thy place shall be honorable.
Ile procure this fat Rogue a Charge of Foot,
and I know his death will be a Match of Twelue-score.
The Money shall be pay'd backe againe with aduantage.
Be with me betimes in the Morning: and so good morrow
Peto
   Peto. Good morrow, good my Lord.
Exeunt.
Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.
Enter Hotspurre, Worcester, Lord Mortimer, Owen Glendower.
  Mort. These promises are faire, the parties sure,
And our induction full of prosperous hope
   Hotsp. Lord Mortimer, and Cousin Glendower,
Will you sit downe?
And Vnckle Worcester; a plague vpon it,
I haue forgot the Mappe
