    Darkness—sooty, portentous darkness—shrouds the whole scene: only
    above the accursed wood, as if through a horrid rift in the murky
    ceiling, a rainy deluge—‘sleety-flaw, discoloured water’—streams down
    amain, spreading a grisly spectral light, even more horrible than
    that palpable night.  Already the Earth pants thick and fast! the
    darkened Cross trembles! the winds are dropt—the air is stagnant—a
    muttering rumble growls underneath their feet, and some of that
    miserable crowd begin to fly down the hill.  The horses snuff the
    coming terror, and become unmanageable through fear.  The moment
    rapidly approaches when, nearly torn asunder by His own weight,
    fainting with loss of blood, which now runs in narrower rivulets from
    His slit veins, His temples and breast drowned in sweat, and His
    black tongue parched with the fiery death-fever, Jesus cries, ‘I
    thirst.’  The deadly vinegar is elevated to Him.
    His head sinks, and the sacred corpse ‘swings senseless of the
    cross.’  A sheet of vermilion flame shoots sheer through the air and
    vanishes; the rocks of Carmel and Lebanon cleave asunder; the sea
    rolls on high from the sands its black weltering waves.  Earth yawns,
    and the graves give up their dwellers.  The dead and the living are
    mingled together in unnatural conjunction and hurry through the holy
    city.  New prodigies await them there.  The veil of the temple—the
    unpierceable veil—is rent asunder from top to bottom, and that
    dreaded recess containing the Hebrew mysteries—the fatal ark with the
    tables and seven-branched candelabrum—is disclosed by the light of
    unearthly flames to the God-deserted multitude.
    Rembrandt never painted this sketch, and he was quite right.  It
    would have lost nearly all its charms in losing that perplexing veil
    of indistinctness which affords such ample range wherein the doubting
    imagination may speculate.  At present it is like a thing in another
    world.  A dark gulf is betwixt us.  It is not tangible by the body.
    We can only approach it in the spirit.
In this passage, written, the author tells us, ‘in awe and reverence,’
there is much that is terrible, and very much that is quite horrible, but
it is not without a certain crude form of power, or, at any rate, a
certain crude violence of words, a quality which this age should highly
appreciate, as it is its chief defect.  It is pleasanter, however, to
pass to this description of Giulio Romano’s ‘Cephalus and Procris’:—
    We should read Moschus’s lament for Bion, the sweet shepherd, before
    looking at this picture, or study the picture as a preparation for
    the lament.  We have nearly the same images in both.  For either
    victim the high groves and forest dells murmur; the flowers exhale
    sad perfume from their buds; the nightingale mourns on the craggy
    lands, and the swallow in the long-winding vales; ‘the satyrs, too,
    and fauns dark-veiled groan,’ and the fountain nymphs within the wood
    melt into tearful waters.  The sheep and goats leave their pasture;
    and oreads, ‘who love to scale the most inaccessible tops of all
    uprightest rocks,’ hurry down from the song of their wind-courting
    pines; while the dryads bend from the branches of the meeting trees,
    and the rivers moan for white Procris, ‘with many-sobbing streams,’
