"Well, no; it usually takes twenty-one days for bones to knit, and young
ones make quick work of it," answered the doctor, with a last scientific
tuck to the various bandages, which made Jack feel like a hapless
chicken trussed for the spit.
"Twenty-one days! Three whole weeks in bed! I shouldn't call that quick
work," groaned the dismayed patient, whose experience of illness had
been limited.
"It is a forty days' job, young man, and you must make up your mind to
bear it like a hero. We will do our best; but next time, look before
you leap, and save your bones. Good-night; you'll feel better in the
morning. No jigs, remember;" and off went the busy doctor for another
look at Jill, who had been ordered to bed and left to rest till the
other case was attended to.
Any one would have thought Jack's plight much the worse, but the
doctor looked more sober over Jill's hurt back than the boy's compound
fractures; and the poor little girl had a very bad quarter of an hour
while he was trying to discover the extent of the injury.
"Keep her quiet, and time will show how much damage is done," was all
he said in her hearing; but if she had known that he told Mrs. Pecq he
feared serious consequences, she would not have wondered why her mother
cried as she rubbed the numb limbs and placed the pillows so tenderly.
Jill suffered most in her mind; for only a sharp stab of pain now and
then reminded her of her body; but her remorseful little soul gave her
no peace for thinking of Jack, whose bruises and breakages her lively
fancy painted in the darkest colors.
"Oh, don't be good to me, Mammy; I made him go, and now he's hurt
dreadfully, and may die; and it is all my fault, and everybody ought to
hate me," sobbed poor Jill, as a neighbor left the room after reporting
in a minute manner how Jack screamed when his leg was set, and how Frank
was found white as a sheet, with his head under the pump, while Gus
restored the tone of his friend's nerves, by pumping as if the house was
on fire.
"Whist, my lass, and go to sleep. Take a sup of the good wine Mrs. Minot
sent, for you are as cold as a clod, and it breaks my heart to see my
Janey so."
"I can't go to sleep; I don't see how Jack's mother could send me
anything when I've half killed him. I want to be cold and ache and have
horrid things done to me. Oh, if I ever get out of this bed I'll be the
best girl in the world, to pay for this. See if I ain't!" and Jill
gave such a decided nod that her tears flew all about the pillow like a
shower.
"You'd better begin at once, for you won't get out of that bed for a
long while, I'm afraid, my lamb," sighed her mother, unable to conceal
the anxiety that lay so heavy on her heart.
