Off ran Frank, and Jack told his wrongs to his mother. She sympathized
heartily, and saw no harm in the affectionate little note, which would
please Jill, and help her to bear her trials patiently.
"It isn't silly to be fond of her, is it? She is so nice and funny, and
tries to be good, and likes me, and I won't be ashamed of my friends, if
folks do laugh," protested Jack, with a rap of his teaspoon.
"No, dear, it is quite kind and proper, and I'd rather have you play
with a merry little girl than with rough boys till you are big enough
to hold your own," answered Mamma, putting the cup to his lips that the
reclining lad might take his broma without spilling.
"Pooh! I don't mean that; I'm strong enough now to take care of myself,"
cried Jack, stoutly. "I can thrash Joe any day, if I like. Just look
at my arm; there's muscle for you!" and up went a sleeve, to the great
danger of overturning the tray, as the boy proudly displayed his biceps
and expanded his chest, both of which were very fine for a lad of his
years. "If I'd been on my legs, he wouldn't have dared to insult me, and
it was cowardly to hit a fellow when he was down."
Mrs. Minot wanted to laugh at Jack's indignation, but the bell rang, and
she had to go and pull in the basket, much amused at the new game.
Burning to distinguish herself in the eyes of the big boys, Jill had
sent over a tall, red flannel night-cap, which she had been making for
some proposed Christmas plays, and added the following verse, for she
was considered a gifted rhymester at the game parties:--
  "When it comes night,
  We put out the light.
  Some blow with a puff,
  Some turn down and snuff;
  But neat folks prefer
  A nice extinguis_her_.
  So here I send you back
  One to put on Mr. Jack."
"Now, I call that regularly smart; not one of us could do it, and I just
wish Joe was here to see it. I want to send once more, something good
for tea; she hates gruel so;" and the last despatch which the Great
International Telegraph carried that day was a baked apple and a warm
muffin, with "J. M.'s best regards."
Chapter IV. Ward No. 2.
Things were not so gay in Ward No. 2, for Mrs. Pecq was very busy, and
Jill had nothing to amuse her but flying visits from the girls, and such
little plays as she could invent for herself in bed. Fortunately, she
had a lively fancy, and so got on pretty well, till keeping still grew
unbearable, and the active child ached in every limb to be up and out.
That, however, was impossible, for the least attempt to sit or stand
brought on the pain that took her breath away and made her glad to lie
flat again. The doctor spoke cheerfully, but looked sober, and Mrs. Pecq
began to fear that Janey was to be a cripple for life. She said nothing,
but Jill's quick eyes saw an added trouble in the always anxious face,
and it depressed her spirits, though she never guessed half the mischief
the fall had done.
