"My dear soul, cheer up, and we will help one another through the hard
times," she said, with a soft hand on the rough one, and a look that
promised much.
"Please God, we will, mem! With such good friends, I never should
complain. I try not to do it, but it breaks my heart to see my little
lass spoiled for life, most like;" and Mrs. Pecq pressed the kind hand
with a despondent sigh.
"We won't say, or even think, that, yet. Everything is possible to youth
and health like Janey's. We must keep her happy, and time will do the
rest, I'm sure. Let us begin at once, and have a surprise for her when
she wakes."
As she spoke, Mrs. Minot moved quietly about the room, pinning the pages
of several illustrated papers against the wall at the foot of the bed,
and placing to the best advantage the other comforts she had brought.
"Keep up your heart, neighbor. I have an idea in my head which I think
will help us all, if I can carry it out," she said, cheerily, as she
went, leaving Mrs. Pecq to sew on Jack's new night-gowns, with swift
fingers, and the grateful wish that she might work for these good
friends forever.
As if the whispering and rustling had disturbed her, Jill soon began to
stir, and slowly opened the eyes which had closed so wearily on the
dull December afternoon. The bare wall with its brown spiders no longer
confronted her, but the colored print of a little girl dancing to the
tune her father was playing on a guitar, while a stately lady, with
satin dress, ruff, and powder, stood looking on, well pleased. The
quaint figure, in its belaced frock, quilted petticoat, and red-heeled
shoes, seemed to come tripping toward her in such a life-like way,
that she almost saw the curls blow back, heard the rustle of the rich
brocade, and caught the sparkle of the little maid's bright eyes.
"Oh, how pretty! Who sent them?" asked Jill, eagerly, as her eye glanced
along the wall, seeing other new and interesting things beyond: an
elephant-hunt, a ship in full sail, a horse-race, and a ball-room.
"The good fairy who never comes empty-handed. Look round a bit and you
will see more pretties all for you, my dearie;" and her mother pointed
to a bunch of purple grapes in a green leaf plate, a knot of bright
flowers pinned on the white curtain, and a gay little double gown across
the foot of the bed.
Jill clapped her hands, and was enjoying her new pleasures, when in came
Merry and Molly Loo, with Boo, of course, trotting after her like a fat
and amiable puppy. Then the good times began; the gown was put on, the
fruit tasted, and the pictures were studied like famous works of art.
"It's a splendid plan to cover up that hateful wall. I'd stick pictures
all round and have a gallery. That reminds me! Up in the garret at our
house is a box full of old fashion-books my aunt left. I often look at
them on rainy days, and they are very funny. I'll go this minute and
get every one. We can pin them up, or make paper dolls;" and away rushed
Molly Loo, with the small brother waddling behind, for, when he lost
sight of her, he was desolate indeed.
