That was why Nelson had lingered at the bar.  Having bought a drink, he
had waited for me to buy one.  I HAD LET HIM BUY SIX DRINKS AND NEVER
ONCE OFFERED TO TREAT.  And he was the great Nelson! I could feel myself
blushing with shame.  I sat down on the stringer-piece of the wharf and
buried my face in my hands.  And the heat of my shame burned up my neck
and into my cheeks and forehead.  I have blushed many times in my life,
but never have I experienced so terrible a blush as that one.
And sitting there on the stringer-piece in my shame, I did a great deal
of thinking and transvaluing of values.  I had been born poor.  Poor I
had lived.  I had gone hungry on occasion.  I had never had toys nor
playthings like other children.  My first memories of life were pinched
by poverty.  The pinch of poverty had been chronic.  I was eight years
old when I wore my first little undershirt actually sold in a store
across the counter.  And then it had been only one little undershirt.
When it was soiled I had to return to the awful home-made things until it
was washed.  I had been so proud of it that I insisted on wearing it
without any outer garment.  For the first time I mutinied against my
mother--mutinied myself into hysteria, until she let me wear the store
undershirt so all the world could see.
Only a man who has undergone famine can properly value food; only sailors
and desert-dwellers know the meaning of fresh water.  And only a child,
with a child's imagination, can come to know the meaning of things it has
been long denied.  I early discovered that the only things I could have
were those I got for myself.  My meagre childhood developed meagreness.
The first things I had been able to get for myself had been cigarette
pictures, cigarette posters, and cigarette albums.  I had not had the
spending of the money I earned, so I traded "extra" newspapers for these
treasures.  I traded duplicates with the other boys, and circulating, as
I did, all about town, I had greater opportunities for trading and
acquiring.
It was not long before I had complete every series issued by every
cigarette manufacturer--such as the Great Race Horses, Parisian Beauties,
Women of All Nations, Flags of All Nations, Noted Actors, Champion Prize
Fighters, etc.  And each series I had three different ways: in the card
from the cigarette package, in the poster, and in the album.
Then I began to accumulate duplicate sets, duplicate albums.  I traded
for other things that boys valued and which they usually bought with
money given them by their parents.  Naturally, they did not have the keen
sense of values that I had, who was never given money to buy anything.  I
traded for postage-stamps, for minerals, for curios, for birds' eggs, for
marbles (I had a more magnificent collection of agates than I have ever
seen any boy possess--and the nucleus of the collection was a handful
worth at least three dollars, which I had kept as security for twenty
cents I loaned to a messenger-boy who was sent to reform school before he
could redeem them).
