In those after days of sickness, I was confused on some points, and very
clear on others.  I felt guilty of sin, yet smarted with a sense of
injustice.  It had not been my fault, yet I had done wrong.  But very
clear was my resolution never to touch liquor again.  No mad dog was ever
more afraid of water than was I of alcohol.
Yet the point I am making is that this experience, terrible as it was,
could not in the end deter me from forming John Barleycorn's
cheek-by-jowl acquaintance.  All about me, even then, were the forces
moving me toward him.  In the first place, barring my mother, ever
extreme in her views, it seemed to me all the grown-ups looked upon the
affair with tolerant eyes.  It was a joke, something funny that had
happened.  There was no shame attached.  Even the lads and lassies
giggled and snickered over their part in the affair, narrating with gusto
how Larry had jumped on my chest and slept under the bridge, how
So-and-So had slept out in the sandhills that night, and what had
happened to the other lad who fell in the ditch.  As I say, so far as I
could see, there was no shame anywhere.  It had been something
ticklishly, devilishly fine--a bright and gorgeous episode in the
monotony of life and labour on that bleak, fog-girt coast.
The Irish ranchers twitted me good-naturedly on my exploit, and patted me
on the back until I felt that I had done something heroic.  Peter and
Dominick and the other Italians were proud of my drinking prowess.  The
face of morality was not set against drinking.  Besides, everybody drank.
There was not a teetotaler in the community.  Even the teacher of our
little country school, a greying man of fifty, gave us vacations on the
occasions when he wrestled with John Barleycorn and was thrown.  Thus
there was no spiritual deterrence.  My loathing for alcohol was purely
physiological.  I didn't like the damned stuff.
CHAPTER V
This physical loathing for alcohol I have never got over.  But I have
conquered it.  To this day I conquer it every time I take a drink.  The
palate never ceases to rebel, and the palate can be trusted to know what
is good for the body.  But men do not drink for the effect alcohol
produces on the body.  What they drink for is the brain-effect; and if it
must come through the body, so much the worse for the body.
And yet, despite my physical loathing for alcohol, the brightest spots in
my child life were the saloons.  Sitting on the heavy potato wagons,
wrapped in fog, feet stinging from inactivity, the horses plodding slowly
along the deep road through the sandhills, one bright vision made the way
never too long.  The bright vision was the saloon at Colma, where my
father, or whoever drove, always got out to get a drink.  And I got out
to warm by the great stove and get a soda cracker.  Just one soda
cracker, but a fabulous luxury.  Saloons were good for something.  Back
behind the plodding horses, I would take an hour in consuming that one
cracker.  I took the smallest nibbles, never losing a crumb, and chewed
the nibble till it became the thinnest and most delectable of pastes.  I
never voluntarily swallowed this paste.  I just tasted it, and went on
tasting it, turning it over with my tongue, spreading it on the inside of
this cheek, then on the inside of the other cheek, until, at the end, it
eluded me and in tiny drops and oozelets, slipped and dribbled down my
throat.  Horace Fletcher had nothing on me when it came to soda crackers.
