Mrs Jo was thinking of this as she looked at Nat while he talked
with her husband about Leipzig, and she resolved to have a clear
understanding with him before he went; for she was used to confidences,
and talked freely with her boys about the trials and temptations that
beset all lives in the beginning, and so often mar them, for want of the
right word at the right moment.
This is the first duty of parents, and no false delicacy should
keep them from the watchful care, the gentle warning, which makes
self-knowledge and self-control the compass and pilot of the young as
they leave the safe harbour of home.
'Plato and his disciples approach,' announced irreverent Teddy, as Mr
March came in with several young men and women about him; for the wise
old man was universally beloved, and ministered so beautifully to his
flock that many of them thanked him all their lives for the help given
to both hearts and souls.
Bess went to him at once; for since Marmee died, Grandpapa was her
special care, and it was sweet to see the golden head bend over the
silver one as she rolled out his easy-chair and waited on him with
tender alacrity.
'Aesthetic tea always on tap here, sir; will you have a flowing bowl
or a bit of ambrosia?' asked Laurie, who was wandering about with a
sugar-basin in one hand and a plate of cake in the other; for sweetening
cups and feeding the hungry was work he loved.
'Neither, thanks; this child has taken care of me'; and Mr March turned
to Bess, who sat on one arm of his chair, holding a glass of fresh milk.
'Long may she live to do it, sir, and I be here to see this pretty
contradiction of the song that "youth and age cannot live together"!'
answered Laurie, smiling at the pair. '"Crabbed age", papa; that makes
all the difference in the world,' said Bess quickly; for she loved
poetry, and read the best.
    'Wouldst thou see fresh roses grow
     In a reverend bed of snow?'
quoted Mr March, as Josie came and perched on the other arm, looking
like a very thorny little rose; for she had been having a hot discussion
with Ted, and had got the worst of it.
'Grandpa, must women always obey men and say they are the wisest, just
because they are the strongest?' she cried, looking fiercely at her
cousin, who came stalking up with a provoking smile on the boyish face
that was always very comical atop of that tall figure.
'Well, my dear, that is the old-fashioned belief, and it will take some
time to change it. But I think the woman's hour has struck; and it looks
to me as if the boys must do their best, for the girls are abreast
now, and may reach the goal first,' answered Mr March, surveying with
paternal satisfaction the bright faces of the young women, who were
among the best students in the college.
