Enter Lear, Foole, and Gentleman.
  Lea. 'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
And not send backe my Messengers
   Gent. As I learn'd,
The night before, there was no purpose in them
Of this remoue
   Kent. Haile to thee Noble Master
   Lear. Ha? Mak'st thou this shame thy pastime?
  Kent. No my Lord
   Foole. Hah, ha, he weares Cruell Garters Horses are
tide by the heads, Dogges and Beares by'th' necke,
Monkies by'th' loynes, and Men by'th' legs: when a man
ouerlustie at legs, then he weares wodden nether-stocks
   Lear. What's he,
That hath so much thy place mistooke
To set thee heere?
  Kent. It is both he and she,
Your Son, and Daughter
   Lear. No
   Kent. Yes
   Lear. No I say
   Kent. I say yea
   Lear. By Iupiter I sweare no
   Kent. By Iuno, I sweare I
   Lear. They durst not do't:
They could not, would not do't: 'tis worse then murther,
To do vpon respect such violent outrage:
Resolue me with all modest haste, which way
Thou might'st deserue, or they impose this vsage,
Comming from vs
   Kent. My Lord, when at their home
I did commend your Highnesse Letters to them,
Ere I was risen from the place, that shewed
My dutie kneeling, came there a reeking Poste,
Stew'd in his haste, halfe breathlesse, painting forth
From Gonerill his Mistris, salutations;
Deliuer'd Letters spight of intermission,
Which presently they read; on those contents
They summon'd vp their meiney, straight tooke Horse,
Commanded me to follow, and attend
The leisure of their answer, gaue me cold lookes,
And meeting heere the other Messenger,
Whose welcome I perceiu'd had poison'd mine,
Being the very fellow which of late
Displaid so sawcily against your Highnesse,
Hauing more man then wit about me, drew;
He rais'd the house, with loud and coward cries,
Your Sonne and Daughter found this trespasse worth
The shame which heere it suffers
   Foole. Winters not gon yet, if the wil'd Geese fly that way,
Fathers that weare rags, do make their Children blind,
But Fathers that beare bags, shall see their children kind.
Fortune that arrant whore, nere turns the key toth' poore.
But for all this thou shalt haue as many Dolors for thy
Daughters, as thou canst tell in a yeare
   Lear. Oh how this Mother swels vp toward my heart!
Historica passio, downe thou climing sorrow,
Thy Elements below where is this Daughter?
  Kent. With the Earle Sir, here within
   Lear. Follow me not, stay here.
Enter.
  Gen. Made you no more offence,
But what you speake of?
  Kent. None:
How chance the King comes with so small a number?
  Foole. And thou hadst beene set i'th' Stockes for that
question, thoud'st well deseru'd it
   Kent. Why Foole?
  Foole. Wee'l set thee to schoole to an Ant, to teach
thee ther's no labouring i'th' winter. All that follow their
noses, are led by their eyes, but blinde men, and there's
not a nose among twenty, but can smell him that's stinking;
let go thy hold when a great wheele runs downe a
hill, least it breake thy necke with following. But the
great one that goes vpward, let him draw thee after:
when a wiseman giues thee better counsell giue me mine
againe, I would haue none but knaues follow it, since a
Foole giues it.
That Sir, which serues and seekes for gaine,
And followes but for forme;
Will packe, when it begins to raine,
And leaue thee in the storme,
But I will tarry, the Foole will stay,
And let the wiseman flie:
The knaue turnes Foole that runnes away,
The Foole no knaue perdie.
Enter Lear, and Gloster] :
  Kent. Where learn'd you this Foole?
  Foole. Not i'th' Stocks Foole
