There was a little more talk about the gardens, and then they all sang
together. The band delighted Nat, for Mrs. Bhaer played the piano, Franz
the flute, Mr. Bhaer a bass viol, and he himself the violin. A very
simple little concert, but all seemed to enjoy it, and old Asia, sitting
in the corner, joined at times with the sweetest voice of any, for in
this family, master and servant, old and young, black and white, shared
in the Sunday song, which went up to the Father of them all. After this
they each shook hands with Father Bhaer; Mother Bhaer kissed them every
one from sixteen-year-old Franz to little Rob, how kept the tip of her
nose for his own particular kisses, and then they trooped up to bed.
The light of the shaded lamp that burned in the nursery shone softly on
a picture hanging at the foot of Nat's bed. There were several others
on the walls, but the boy thought there must be something peculiar about
this one, for it had a graceful frame of moss and cones about it, and
on a little bracket underneath stood a vase of wild flowers freshly
gathered from the spring woods. It was the most beautiful picture of
them all, and Nat lay looking at it, dimly feeling what it meant, and
wishing he knew all about it.
"That's my picture," said a little voice in the room. Nat popped up his
head, and there was Demi in his night-gown pausing on his way back from
Aunt Jo's chamber, whither he had gone to get a cot for a cut finger.
"What is he doing to the children?" asked Nat.
"That is Christ, the Good Man, and He is blessing the children. Don't
you know about Him?" said Demi, wondering.
"Not much, but I'd like to, He looks so kind," answered Nat, whose chief
knowledge of the Good Man consisted in hearing His name taken in vain.
"I know all about it, and I like it very much, because it is true," said
Demi.
"Who told you?"
"My Grandpa, he knows every thing, and tells the best stories in
the world. I used to play with his big books, and make bridges, and
railroads, and houses, when I was a little boy," began Demi.
"How old are you now?" asked Nat, respectfully.
"'Most ten."
"You know a lot of things, don't you?"
"Yes; you see my head is pretty big, and Grandpa says it will take a
good deal to fill it, so I keep putting pieces of wisdom into it as fast
as I can," returned Demi, in his quaint way.
Nat laughed, and then said soberly,
"Tell on, please."
And Demi gladly told on without pause or punctuation. "I found a very
pretty book one day and wanted to play with it, but Grandpa said I
mustn't, and showed me the pictures, and told me about them, and I liked
the stories very much, all about Joseph and his bad brothers, and the
frogs that came up out of the sea, and dear little Moses in the water,
and ever so many more lovely ones, but I liked about the Good Man best
of all, and Grandpa told it to me so many times that I learned it by
heart, and he gave me this picture so I shouldn't forget, and it was
put up here once when I was sick, and I left it for other sick boys to
see."'
