‘Explosive clocks,’ said Herr Winckelkopf, ‘are not very good things for
foreign exportation, as, even if they succeed in passing the Custom
House, the train service is so irregular, that they usually go off before
they have reached their proper destination.  If, however, you want one
for home use, I can supply you with an excellent article, and guarantee
that you will he satisfied with the result.  May I ask for whom it is
intended?  If it is for the police, or for any one connected with
Scotland Yard, I am afraid I cannot do anything for you.  The English
detectives are really our best friends, and I have always found that by
relying on their stupidity, we can do exactly what we like.  I could not
spare one of them.’
‘I assure you,’ said Lord Arthur, ‘that it has nothing to do with the
police at all.  In fact, the clock is intended for the Dean of
Chichester.’
‘Dear me!  I had no idea that you felt so strongly about religion, Lord
Arthur.  Few young men do nowadays.’
‘I am afraid you overrate me, Herr Winckelkopf,’ said Lord Arthur,
blushing.  ‘The fact is, I really know nothing about theology.’
‘It is a purely private matter then?’
‘Purely private.’
Herr Winckelkopf shrugged his shoulders, and left the room, returning in
a few minutes with a round cake of dynamite about the size of a penny,
and a pretty little French clock, surmounted by an ormolu figure of
Liberty trampling on the hydra of Despotism.
Lord Arthur’s face brightened up when he saw it.  ‘That is just what I
want,’ he cried, ‘and now tell me how it goes off.’
‘Ah! there is my secret,’ answered Herr Winckelkopf, contemplating his
invention with a justifiable look of pride; ‘let me know when you wish it
to explode, and I will set the machine to the moment.’
‘Well, to-day is Tuesday, and if you could send it off at once—’
‘That is impossible; I have a great deal of important work on hand for
some friends of mine in Moscow.  Still, I might send it off to-morrow.’
‘Oh, it will be quite time enough!’ said Lord Arthur politely, ‘if it is
delivered to-morrow night or Thursday morning.  For the moment of the
explosion, say Friday at noon exactly.  The Dean is always at home at
that hour.’
‘Friday, at noon,’ repeated Herr Winckelkopf, and he made a note to that
effect in a large ledger that was lying on a bureau near the fireplace.
‘And now,’ said Lord Arthur, rising from his seat, ‘pray let me know how
much I am in your debt.’
‘It is such a small matter, Lord Arthur, that I do not care to make any
charge.  The dynamite comes to seven and sixpence, the clock will be
three pounds ten, and the carriage about five shillings.  I am only too
pleased to oblige any friend of Count Rouvaloff’s.’
‘But your trouble, Herr Winckelkopf?’
‘Oh, that is nothing!  It is a pleasure to me.  I do not work for money;
I live entirely for my art.’
