She alludes very briefly to the experiment in her diary, for the
experience was too bitter to dwell upon. She could not relieve her
feelings by bringing out the comic side, as her daughter did. Louisa's
account of this colony, as given in her story called "Transcendental
Wild Oats," is very close to the facts; and the mingling of pathos and
humor, the reverence and ridicule with which she alternately treats
the personages and the notions of those engaged in the scheme, make a
rich and delightful tale. It was written many years later, and gives
the picture as she looked back upon it, the absurdities coming out in
strong relief, while she sees also the grand, misty outlines of the
high thoughts so poorly realized. This story was published in the
"Independent," Dec. 8, 1873, and may now be found in her collected
works ("Silver Pitchers," p. 79).
Fortunately we have also her journal written at the time, which shows
what education the experience of this strange life brought to the
child of ten or eleven years old.
The following extract from Mr. Emerson proves that this plan of life
looked fair and pleasing to his eye, although he was never tempted to
join in it. He was evidently not unconscious of the inadequacy of the
means adopted to the end proposed, but he rejoiced in any endeavor
after high ideal life.
     JULY, 8, 1843.
   _Journal._--The sun and the evening sky do not look calmer than
   Alcott and his family at Fruitlands. They seemed to have arrived
   at the fact,--to have got rid of the show, and so to be serene.
   Their manners and behavior in the house and in the field were
   those of superior men,--of men at rest. What had they to conceal?
   What had they to exhibit? And it seemed so high an attainment
   that I thought--as often before, so now more, because they had a
   fit home, or the picture was fitly framed--that these men ought
   to be maintained in their place by the country for its culture.
   Young men and young maidens, old men and women, should visit them
   and be inspired. I think there is as much merit in beautiful
   manners as in hard work. I will not prejudge them successful.
   They look well in July; we will see them in December. I know they
   are better for themselves than as partners. One can easily see
   that they have yet to settle several things. Their saying that
   things are clear, and they sane, does not make them so. If they
   will in very deed be lovers, and not selfish; if they will serve
   the town of Harvard, and make their neighbors feel them as
   benefactors wherever they touch them,--they are as safe as the
   sun.[5]
_Early Diary kept at Fruitlands_, 1843.
_Ten Years Old._
   _September 1st._--I rose at five and had my bath. I love cold
   water! Then we had our singing-lesson with Mr. Lane. After
   breakfast I washed dishes, and ran on the hill till nine, and had
   some thoughts,--it was so beautiful up there. Did my
   lessons,--wrote and spelt and did sums; and Mr. Lane read a
   story, "The Judicious Father": How a rich girl told a poor girl
   not to look over the fence at the flowers, and was cross to her
   because she was unhappy. The father heard her do it, and made the
   girls change clothes. The poor one was glad to do it, and he told
   her to keep them. But the rich one was very sad; for she had to
   wear the old ones a week, and after that she was good to shabby
   girls. I liked it very much, and I shall be kind to poor people.
