   "It is always better to give away than to keep the nice things;
   so I know my Louy will not let the little friend go without."
   The little friend received the dear plummy cake, and I a kiss and
   my first lesson in the sweetness of self-denial,--a lesson which
   my dear mother beautifully illustrated all her long and noble
   life.
   Running away was one of the delights of my early days; and I
   still enjoy sudden flights out of the nest to look about this
   very interesting world, and then go back to report.
   On one of these occasions I passed a varied day with some Irish
   children, who hospitably shared their cold potatoes, salt-fish,
   and crusts with me as we revelled in the ash-heaps which then
   adorned the waste lands where the Albany Depot now stands. A trip
   to the Common cheered the afternoon, but as dusk set in and my
   friends deserted me, I felt that home was a nice place after all,
   and tried to find it. I dimly remember watching a lamp-lighter as
   I sat to rest on some doorsteps in Bedford Street, where a big
   dog welcomed me so kindly that I fell asleep with my head
   pillowed on his curly back, and was found there by the
   town-crier, whom my distracted parents had sent in search of me.
   His bell and proclamation of the loss of "a little girl, six
   years old, in a pink frock, white hat, and new green shoes," woke
   me up, and a small voice answered out of the darkness,--
   "Why, dat's me!"
   Being with difficulty torn from my four-footed friend, I was
   carried to the crier's house, and there feasted sumptuously on
   bread-and-molasses in a tin plate with the alphabet round it. But
   my fun ended next day when I was tied to the arm of the sofa to
   repent at leisure.
   I became an Abolitionist at a very early age, but have never been
   able to decide whether I was made so by seeing the portrait of
   George Thompson hidden under a bed in our house during the
   Garrison riot, and going to comfort "the poor man who had been
   good to the slaves," or because I was saved from drowning in the
   Frog Pond some years later by a colored boy. However that may be,
   the conversion was genuine; and my greatest pride is in the fact
   that I lived to know the brave men and women who did so much for
   the cause, and that I had a very small share in the war which put
   an end to a great wrong.
Another recollection of her childhood was of a "contraband" hidden in
the oven, which must have made her sense of the horrors of slavery
very keen.
   I never went to school except to my father or such governesses as
   from time to time came into the family. Schools then were not
   what they are now; so we had lessons each morning in the study.
   And very happy hours they were to us, for my father taught in the
   wise way which unfolds what lies in the child's nature, as a
   flower blooms, rather than crammed it, like a Strasburg goose,
   with more than it could digest. I never liked arithmetic nor
   grammar, and dodged those branches on all occasions; but reading,
   writing, composition, history, and geography I enjoyed, as well
   as the stories read to us with a skill peculiarly his own.
