Old Pickle took the baby's plate, as better suited to his size.  The
little salts made a tricycle of napkin-rings, and rode gayly off, with
the dogs barking after them.  Even the carving-fork, though not invited,
could not resist the exciting sport, and tipping up the wooden
bread-platter, went whizzing off at a great pace, for his two prongs
were better than four, and his wheel was lighter than the china ones.
Grand-papa Ladle cheered them on, like a fine old gentleman as he was,
for though the new craze rather astonished him, he liked manly sports,
and would have taken a turn if his dignity and age had allowed.  The
ladies chimed their applause, for it really was immensely exciting to
see fourteen plates with forks astride racing round the large table with
cries of, "Go it, Pickle!  Now, then, Prongs!  Steady, Silver-top!
Hurrah for the twins!"
The fun was at its height when young Prongs ran against Pickle, who did
not steer well, and both went off the table with a crash.  All stopped
at once, and crowded to the edge to see who was killed.  The plates lay
in pieces, old Pickle had a bend in his back that made him groan
dismally, and Prongs had fallen down the register.
Wails of despair arose at that awful sight, for he was a favorite with
every one, and such a tragic death was too much for some of the
tender-hearted spoons, who fainted at the idea of that gallant fork's
destruction in what to them was a fiery volcano.
"Serves Pickle right!  He ought to know he was too old for such wild
games," scolded Miss Mustard, peering anxiously over at her friend, for
they were fond of one another in spite of their tiffs.
"Now let us see what these fine folks will do when they get off the
damask and come to grief. A helpless lot, I fancy, and those fellows
deserve what they 've got," said the sauce-spoon, nearly upsetting the
twins as she elbowed her way to the front to jeer over the fallen.
"I think you will see that gentle people are as brave as those who make
a noise," answered Madam Gravy, and leaning over the edge of the table
she added in her sweet voice, "Dear Mr. Pickle, we will let down a
napkin and pull you up if you have strength to take hold."
"Pull away, ma'am," groaned Pickle, who well deserved his name just
then, and soon, thanks to Madam's presence of mind, he was safely laid
on a pile of mats, while Miss Mustard put a plaster on his injured back.
Meanwhile brave Grandpapa Ladle had slipped from the table to a chair,
and so to the floor without too great a jar to his aged frame; then
sliding along the carpet, he reached the register. Peering down that
dark, hot abyss he cried, while all listened breathlessly for a reply,
"Prongs, my boy, are you there?"
"Ay, ay, sir; I 'm caught in the wire screen. Ask some of the fellows to
lend a hand and get me out before I 'm melted," answered the fork, with
a gasp of agony.
