The prince always comes to the captive princess, the jail doors open in
time, and the birds find some kind hand to set them free; but there
seemed no hope of escape for this poor child. Only nine years old, and
condemned to life-long helplessness, loneliness, and darkness,--for she
was blind.
She could dimly remember the blue sky, green earth, and beautiful sun;
for the light went out when she was six, and the cruel fever left her a
pale little shadow to haunt that room ever since.  The father was dead;
the mother worked hard for daily bread; they had no friends; and the
good fairies seemed to have forgotten them.  Still, like the larks one
sees in Brittany, whose eyes cruel boys put out that they may sing the
sweeter, Lizzie made music in her cage, singing to baby; and when he
slept, she sat by the window listening to the noise below for company,
crooning to herself till she too fell asleep and forgot the long, long
days that had no play, no school, no change for her such as other
children know.
Every morning mother gave them their porridge, locked the door, and went
away to work, leaving something for the children's dinner, and Lizzie to
take care of herself and Billy till night.  There was no other way, for
both were too helpless to be trusted elsewhere, and there was no one to
look after them.  But Lizzie knew her way about the room, and could find
the bed, the window, and the table where the bread and milk stood.
There was seldom any fire in the stove, and the window was barred, so
the little prisoners were safe; and day after day they lived together a
sad, solitary, unchildlike life that makes one's heart ache to think of.
Lizzie watched over Billy like a faithful little mother, and Billy did
his best to bear his trials and comfort sister like a man.  He was not a
rosy, rollicking fellow, like most year-old boys, but pale and thin and
quiet, with a pathetic look in his big blue eyes, as if he said,
"Something is wrong; will some one kindly put it right for us?"  But he
seldom complained unless in pain, and would lie for hours on the old
bed, watching the flies, which were his only other playmates, stretching
out his little hands to the few rays of sunshine that crept in now and
then, as if longing for them, like a flower in a cellar.  When Lizzie
sang, he hummed softly; and when he was hungry, cold, or tired, he
called, "Lib!  Lib!" meaning "Lizzie," and nestled up to her, forgetting
all his baby woes in her tender arms.
Seeing her so fond and faithful, the poor neighbors loved as well as
pitied her, and did what they could for the afflicted child.  The busy
women would pause at the locked door to ask if all was right; the dirty
children brought her dandelions from the park; and the rough workmen of
the factory opposite, with a kind word, would toss an apple or a cake
through the open window.  They had learned to look for the little
wistful face behind the bars, and loved to listen to the childish voice
which caught and imitated the songs they sang and whistled, like a sweet
echo.  They called her "the blind lark;" and though she never knew it,
many were the better for the pity they gave her.
