"I don't believe she 'll come; but maybe it will clear up, and then I
guess she will."
It did not clear up, but the flower lady came; and as the child sat
listening to the welcome sound of her steps, her quick ear caught the
tread of two pairs of feet, the whisper of two voices, and presently two
persons came in to fill her hands with midsummer flowers.
"This is Minna, the little girl I told you of. She wanted to see you
very much, so we paddled away like a pair of ducks, and here we are,"
said Miss Grace, gayly; and as she spoke, Lizzie felt soft fingers glide
over her face, and a pair of childish lips find and kiss her own. The
groping touch, the hearty kiss, made the blind children friends at once,
and dropping her flowers, Lizzie hugged the new-comer, trembling with
excitement and delight.  Then they talked; and how the tongues went as
one asked questions and the other answered them, while Miss Grace sat by
enjoying the happiness of those who do _not_ forget the poor, but seek
them out to save and bless.
Minna had been for a year a pupil in the happy school, where she was
taught to see with her hands, as one might say; and the tales she told
of the good times there made Lizzie cry eagerly,--
"Can I go?  Oh, _can_ go?"
"Alas, no, not yet," answered Miss Grace, sadly.  "I find that children
under ten cannot be taken, and there is no place for the little ones
unless kind people care for them."
Lizzie gave a wail, and hid her face in the pillow, feeling as if she
could not bear the dreadful disappointment.
Minna comforted her, and Miss Grace went on to say that generous people
were trying to get another school for the small children; that all the
blind children were working hard to help on the plan; that money was
coming in; and soon they hoped to have a pleasant place for every child
who needed help.
Lizzie's tears stopped falling as she listened, for hope was not quite
gone.
"I 'll not be ten till next June, and I don't see how I _can_ wait 'most
a year.  Will the little school be ready 'fore then?" she asked.
"I fear not, dear, but I will see that the long waiting is made as easy
as possible, and perhaps you can help us in some way," answered Miss
Grace, anxious to atone for her mistake in speaking about the school
before she had made sure that Lizzie could go.
"Oh, I 'd love to help; only I can't do anything," sighed the child.
"You can sing, and that is a lovely way to help.  I heard of 'the blind
lark,' as they call you, and when I came to find her, your little voice
led me straight to the door of the cage. That door I mean to open, and
let you hop out into the sunshine; then, when you are well and strong, I
hope you will help us get the home for other little children who else
must wait years before _they_ find the light.  Will you?"
