He fumbled for the knob and entered a lighted room, where sat his sister
and Bernard Higginbotham.  She was patching a pair of his trousers, while
his lean body was distributed over two chairs, his feet dangling in
dilapidated carpet-slippers over the edge of the second chair.  He
glanced across the top of the paper he was reading, showing a pair of
dark, insincere, sharp-staring eyes.  Martin Eden never looked at him
without experiencing a sense of repulsion.  What his sister had seen in
the man was beyond him.  The other affected him as so much vermin, and
always aroused in him an impulse to crush him under his foot.  "Some day
I'll beat the face off of him," was the way he often consoled himself for
enduring the man's existence.  The eyes, weasel-like and cruel, were
looking at him complainingly.
"Well," Martin demanded.  "Out with it."
"I had that door painted only last week," Mr. Higginbotham half whined,
half bullied; "and you know what union wages are.  You should be more
careful."
Martin had intended to reply, but he was struck by the hopelessness of
it.  He gazed across the monstrous sordidness of soul to a chromo on the
wall.  It surprised him.  He had always liked it, but it seemed that now
he was seeing it for the first time.  It was cheap, that was what it was,
like everything else in this house.  His mind went back to the house he
had just left, and he saw, first, the paintings, and next, Her, looking
at him with melting sweetness as she shook his hand at leaving.  He
forgot where he was and Bernard Higginbotham's existence, till that
gentleman demanded:-
"Seen a ghost?"
Martin came back and looked at the beady eyes, sneering, truculent,
cowardly, and there leaped into his vision, as on a screen, the same eyes
when their owner was making a sale in the store below--subservient eyes,
smug, and oily, and flattering.
"Yes," Martin answered.  "I seen a ghost.  Good night.  Good night,
Gertrude."
He started to leave the room, tripping over a loose seam in the
slatternly carpet.
"Don't bang the door," Mr. Higginbotham cautioned him.
He felt the blood crawl in his veins, but controlled himself and closed
the door softly behind him.
Mr. Higginbotham looked at his wife exultantly.
"He's ben drinkin'," he proclaimed in a hoarse whisper.  "I told you he
would."
She nodded her head resignedly.
"His eyes was pretty shiny," she confessed; "and he didn't have no
collar, though he went away with one.  But mebbe he didn't have more'n a
couple of glasses."
"He couldn't stand up straight," asserted her husband.  "I watched him.
He couldn't walk across the floor without stumblin'.  You heard 'm
yourself almost fall down in the hall."
"I think it was over Alice's cart," she said.  "He couldn't see it in the
dark."
Mr. Higginbotham's voice and wrath began to rise.  All day he effaced
himself in the store, reserving for the evening, with his family, the
privilege of being himself.
