He was very much astonished when he approached the gallery again, to see
a light in the building: still more so, on advancing hastily and looking
round, to observe no visible source from which it could proceed.  But how
much greater yet was his astonishment at the spectacle which this light
revealed.
The statues of the two giants, Gog and Magog, each above fourteen feet in
height, those which succeeded to still older and more barbarous figures,
after the Great Fire of London, and which stand in the Guildhall to this
day, were endowed with life and motion.  These guardian genii of the City
had quitted their pedestals, and reclined in easy attitudes in the great
stained glass window.  Between them was an ancient cask, which seemed to
be full of wine; for the younger Giant, clapping his huge hand upon it,
and throwing up his mighty leg, burst into an exulting laugh, which
reverberated through the hall like thunder.
Joe Toddyhigh instinctively stooped down, and, more dead than alive, felt
his hair stand on end, his knees knock together, and a cold damp break
out upon his forehead.  But even at that minute curiosity prevailed over
every other feeling, and somewhat reassured by the good-humour of the
Giants and their apparent unconsciousness of his presence, he crouched in
a corner of the gallery, in as small a space as he could, and, peeping
between the rails, observed them closely.
It was then that the elder Giant, who had a flowing gray beard, raised
his thoughtful eyes to his companion’s face, and in a grave and solemn
voice addressed him thus:
FIRST NIGHT OF THE GIANT CHRONICLES
Turning towards his companion the elder Giant uttered these words in a
grave, majestic tone:
‘Magog, does boisterous mirth beseem the Giant Warder of this ancient
city?  Is this becoming demeanour for a watchful spirit over whose
bodiless head so many years have rolled, so many changes swept like empty
air—in whose impalpable nostrils the scent of blood and crime,
pestilence, cruelty, and horror, has been familiar as breath to
mortals—in whose sight Time has gathered in the harvest of centuries, and
garnered so many crops of human pride, affections, hopes, and sorrows?
Bethink you of our compact.  The night wanes; feasting, revelry, and
music have encroached upon our usual hours of solitude, and morning will
be here apace.  Ere we are stricken mute again, bethink you of our
compact.’
Pronouncing these latter words with more of impatience than quite
accorded with his apparent age and gravity, the Giant raised a long pole
(which he still bears in his hand) and tapped his brother Giant rather
smartly on the head; indeed, the blow was so smartly administered, that
the latter quickly withdrew his lips from the cask, to which they had
been applied, and, catching up his shield and halberd, assumed an
attitude of defence.  His irritation was but momentary, for he laid these
weapons aside as hastily as he had assumed them, and said as he did so:
