One night in every week, as the clock strikes ten, we meet.  At the
second stroke of two, I am alone.
And now shall I tell how that my old servant, besides giving us note of
time, and ticking cheerful encouragement of our proceedings, lends its
name to our society, which for its punctuality and my love is christened
‘Master Humphrey’s Clock’?  Now shall I tell how that in the bottom of
the old dark closet, where the steady pendulum throbs and beats with
healthy action, though the pulse of him who made it stood still long ago,
and never moved again, there are piles of dusty papers constantly placed
there by our hands, that we may link our enjoyments with my old friend,
and draw means to beguile time from the heart of time itself?  Shall I,
or can I, tell with what a secret pride I open this repository when we
meet at night, and still find new store of pleasure in my dear old Clock?
Friend and companion of my solitude! mine is not a selfish love; I would
not keep your merits to myself, but disperse something of pleasant
association with your image through the whole wide world; I would have
men couple with your name cheerful and healthy thoughts; I would have
them believe that you keep true and honest time; and how it would gladden
me to know that they recognised some hearty English work in Master
Humphrey’s clock!
THE CLOCK-CASE
It is my intention constantly to address my readers from the
chimney-corner, and I would fain hope that such accounts as I shall give
them of our histories and proceedings, our quiet speculations or more
busy adventures, will never be unwelcome.  Lest, however, I should grow
prolix in the outset by lingering too long upon our little association,
confounding the enthusiasm with which I regard this chief happiness of my
life with that minor degree of interest which those to whom I address
myself may be supposed to feel for it, I have deemed it expedient to
break off as they have seen.
But, still clinging to my old friend, and naturally desirous that all its
merits should be known, I am tempted to open (somewhat irregularly and
against our laws, I must admit) the clock-case.  The first roll of paper
on which I lay my hand is in the writing of the deaf gentleman.  I shall
have to speak of him in my next paper; and how can I better approach that
welcome task than by prefacing it with a production of his own pen,
consigned to the safe keeping of my honest Clock by his own hand?
The manuscript runs thus
INTRODUCTION TO THE GIANT CHRONICLES
Once upon a time, that is to say, in this our time,—the exact year,
month, and day are of no matter,—there dwelt in the city of London a
substantial citizen, who united in his single person the dignities of
wholesale fruiterer, alderman, common-councilman, and member of the
worshipful Company of Patten-makers; who had superadded to these
extraordinary distinctions the important post and title of Sheriff, and
who at length, and to crown all, stood next in rotation for the high and
honourable office of Lord Mayor.
