                      [Picture: A Gallant Cavalier]
Of these glittering clients there was one who always came alone.  He was
nobly mounted, and, having no attendant, gave his horse in charge to Hugh
while he and the Bowyer were closeted within.  Once as he sprung into the
saddle Mistress Alice was seated at an upper window, and before she could
withdraw he had doffed his jewelled cap and kissed his hand.  Hugh
watched him caracoling down the street, and burnt with indignation.  But
how much deeper was the glow that reddened in his cheeks when, raising
his eyes to the casement, he saw that Alice watched the stranger too!
He came again and often, each time arrayed more gaily than before, and
still the little casement showed him Mistress Alice.  At length one heavy
day, she fled from home.  It had cost her a hard struggle, for all her
old father’s gifts were strewn about her chamber as if she had parted
from them one by one, and knew that the time must come when these tokens
of his love would wring her heart,—yet she was gone.
She left a letter commanding her poor father to the care of Hugh, and
wishing he might be happier than ever he could have been with her, for he
deserved the love of a better and a purer heart than she had to bestow.
The old man’s forgiveness (she said) she had no power to ask, but she
prayed God to bless him,—and so ended with a blot upon the paper where
her tears had fallen.
At first the old man’s wrath was kindled, and he carried his wrong to the
Queen’s throne itself; but there was no redress he learnt at Court, for
his daughter had been conveyed abroad.  This afterwards appeared to be
the truth, as there came from France, after an interval of several years,
a letter in her hand.  It was written in trembling characters, and almost
illegible.  Little could be made out save that she often thought of home
and her old dear pleasant room,—and that she had dreamt her father was
dead and had not blessed her,—and that her heart was breaking.
The poor old Bowyer lingered on, never suffering Hugh to quit his sight,
for he knew now that he had loved his daughter, and that was the only
link that bound him to earth.  It broke at length and he
died,—bequeathing his old ’prentice his trade and all his wealth, and
solemnly charging him with his last breath to revenge his child if ever
he who had worked her misery crossed his path in life again.
From the time of Alice’s flight, the tilting-ground, the fields, the
fencing-school, the summer-evening sports, knew Hugh no more.  His spirit
was dead within him.  He rose to great eminence and repute among the
citizens, but was seldom seen to smile, and never mingled in their
revelries or rejoicings.  Brave, humane, and generous, he was beloved by
all.  He was pitied too by those who knew his story, and these were so
many that when he walked along the streets alone at dusk, even the rude
common people doffed their caps and mingled a rough air of sympathy with
their respect.
