_London_ is a Place above my Description, and though I lost no Time the
six Months I remain'd there, to view what Curiosities were to be seen,
yet 'tis probable many Things worthy of Observation escaped my
Diligence. I took a particular care not to make my self Public, but
pass'd at my Lodgings under Disguise of a Merchant, yet abroad I acted
the Marquess, not to be depriv'd of the Means of introducing my self
into the best of Company. I found they were much divided in _England_ as
to the _French_ Politicks; some were of Opinion that _Lewis_ XIV was
serious in King _James_'s Cause, but these were Persons who had no
Notion of Foreign Affairs, and judg'd of Matters according to their
first Appearance; for others who had studied the Interest of Nations,
and how their Pretensions he in regard of one another, had no Notion of
the _French_ King's Sincerity, either towards King _James_, or any other
Prince he dealt with, and there is not one Instance I have mention'd in
these Memoirs, in order to demonstrate the Infatuated State of the Court
of St. _Germains_, but I heard it frequently urg'd to the same purpose,
by the most intelligent Persons, as well Friends as Enemies to King
_James_. While I was diverting my self at _London_, I receiv'd a Letter
from _Paris_, that there was a Lieutenant Collonel's Place vacant, which
I might easily be promoted to in Case I wou'd be at the trouble to, make
use of what Interest I might reasonably Command. But I quickly
understood, that by my Interest was meant my Money, so employing my
_Amsterdam_ Stock that way, I might very probably by a _French_ Piece of
Civility, live to want both my Money and a Commission. I return'd a
thousand Thanks to my Friends for their Diligence in my Absence, but
told 'em, I had rather wait till another War broke out, and their would
be more choice of Promotions, and I might please my self, because I was
somewhat curious what Regiment I engag'd in.
It was a tedious Journey to go into _Scotland_ by Land, otherwise I was
very much disposed to see my own Country once more, and apprehending
besides, there might be some Danger upon account of being engaged in the
_French_ Service during this late War. I laid these Thoughts aside, and
contented my self with making a small Tour Twenty or Thirty Miles
distance from _London_, in which Progrination I saw _Windsor_,
_Greenwich_, _Hampton-Court_, and some other Places of Note. But in one
of these Jaunts, I had like to have paid very dear for my Curiosity. The
Neighbourhood of _London_ is much infested with Highwaymen, and if a
Gentleman rides not with Pistols, 'tis very probable he will be
attack'd. Unacquainted with these Customs, the Day I went to _Windsor_,
I had in Company with me an _Irish_ Gentleman; we made use of nothing
but common Hacks, nor had any other Arms but our Swords; about the
middle of _Honslow Heath_ we met two Gentlemen well mounted, who pass'd
by us unsuspected, but turning suddenly upon us again, with each of 'em
a small Pistol cock'd, they very civilly demanded our Money. Gentlemen,
said I, I am a Stranger; no Gentlemen said they, come quickly deliver
what you have, we are in a publick Road, and can't stand arguing; but
finding us a little Dilatory, they whip'd the Bridles from our Horfes,
cut our Garths, and so dismounted us; and so I and my Companion were
very dexterously strip'd of what they found in our Pockets, which was
all I had about me, but my Friend reserv'd two or three Guineas in his
Fob. When they had finish'd their Business, they gallop'd different ways
cross the Heath, and left us like a couple of Asses, to drive our Horses
to the next Town, and carry the Saddles under our Arms; but by the
Invention of our Garters, and some other such like Tackle, we halter'd
our Steeds till we cou'd refit our selves better. What we lost was but
a Trifle, and 'twas done in so small a space of Time, that appear'd like
a Dream or passing Thought. It was happy either for us or them, that
this happen'd in the Morning when our Heads were cool, for had they
attack'd us when warm'd up with good Liquor, I believe I should have had
little regard to those Pop-guns they threatened us with. When we came to
the next Town, and gave the People an account of our Disaster; the
Landlord of the Inn ask'd us, if we had ever been upon that Road before,
and we inform'd him this was the first time, then said I have Authority
to enroll you as Freemen upon the small Fee of each a Bottle of Wine,
and this I take to be no Imposition, because I am plac'd here in a
convenient Part of the Country to advance a small sum to such as are
robb'd of all they have, and cannot pursue their Journey; so Gentlemen,
if that be your Condition, I have a couple of Guineas ready for you,
which I will lend upon Honour, but in Case it be not a clean Robbery,
what you have conceal'd from the Diligent Highwaymen is the Landlord's
Fee as far as each a Bottle of Wine. This Merry Landlord I thought was
very conveniently posted to divert People after their Misfortunes, we
never went about to examine him, whether his Demand was customary, or
only a Piece of shire Wit, and an extemporary Instance of his prolifick
Genius, but sat down, and made our selves most immoderately drunk. The
Landlord discanted very copiously upon the ancient and modern Practise
of Robbing upon the Road, and seem'd very much inclin'd to lessen the
Crime. Formerly, said he, no Body robb'd upon the Road but base
scoundrel Fellows; but now 'tis become a Gentleman-like Employment, and
young Brothers of very good Families are not asham'd to spend their time
that way; besides the Practise is very much refin'd as to the manner,
there's no Fighting or Hectoring during the Performance, but these
Gentlemen approach you decently and submissive, with their Hat in their
Hand to know your Pleasure, and what you can well afford to support them
in that Dignity they live in: 'Tis true, says he, they often for Form
sake have a Pistol in their Hand, which is part of their riding
Furniture; but that is only in the Nature of a Petition, to let you know
they are Orphans of Providence just fallen under your Protection. In a
Word, demanding Money upon the Road, is now so agreeably perform'd,
that 'tis much the same with asking an Alms. The poor Beggar wou'd rob
you if he durst, and the Gentleman Beggar will not rob you if you will
but give a decent Alms suitable to his Quality. I thought my time so
well spent to hear this Landlord plead in favour of Padding, that I told
my Companion I had often known the time that I wou'd have willingly have
parted with more Money than I was strip'd of upon the Heath, to have
some Melancholly Thoughts driven away by such a merry Companion.
