As soon as the Villain was out of sight, the _Englishman_ loitered his
Time too and fro till it was dark, and then return'd backward towards
_Lyons_, hoping to meet either with Credit or Charity for a small Sum to
bear his Charges home, but not being able to reach the Town that Night,
he put in at a poor Cabaret, where he open'd his dismal Condition to the
Master of the House, who being a very Compassionate Man, promis'd to
entertain him _Gratis_ that Night, and conduct him to _Lyons_ the next
Morning. His first Application was to me; I promis'd to get him some
Relief in a Day or Two, and the mean Time I procur'd him a Lodging. The
next Day coming up a Street which leads to my House, he accidently cast
his Eyes into a Habadasher's Shop, where he saw a Person sitting upon a
Stool at the side of the Counter chaffering for a Hat; his Back, and a
Silk Bag his Wigg was tied up in, had so much the Resemblance with the
Person that rob'd him, that he stood gazing into the Shop so long, that
the shop-keeper step'd to the Door, and call'd to him if he would come
in and please to buy any Thing, upon which the Gentleman upon the Stool
turning himself about to look out of the Shop, he was known to be the
same Man who had committed the Robbery, and being in a Consternation to
see the Person he had assaulted stand directly before the Shop, he threw
down the Hat he had in his Hand, and leaving his Money upon the Counter,
bolted out of the Door; but the _Englishman_ immediately alarm'd the
whole Street, and the Rogue was taken and carried before a Magistrate.
In the mean time I was sent for to assist the _Englishman_ in the
Narrative of this Fact. At first the Foot-pad denied he ever saw the
Person, and as for the Money it cou'd not be sworn too; but the Box with
little Roman Pieces being found upon him, he cou'd not stand that Proof,
besides, it appears he can give no Account where he was the Evening of
the Robbery, and the Innkeeper upon the Road, is positive he was one of
the Persons which pass'd by his House that Evening; and to compleat all,
several Persons who came in to see him out of Curiosity, depos'd, that
he is very like the Man, by Description, has follow'd that Road several
Years. To conclude, the _Englishman_ only stays in Town now to be
Witness against this _Malhoneux_. Hanging is certainly his Doom; but if
other Suspicions are made out, of his being that noted Offender, who had
infested the Road for a considerable Time, it will be his Fate to be
broke upon the Wheel. However, the _Englishman_ has recover'd most of
his Money, but he will be forc'd to expend it on Charges; but I will see
to ease him in that Point. I was very much edify'd with this Clergyman's
Generous and Christian Temper in being obliging and endeavouring to do
good to every Body. But now the Time drew near that we were to leave
_Lyons_, we had but one Day more to stay, and that the _Irish_
Prebendary challenged to himself, desiring I and my Companions would
accept of a small Treat and Dine with him. We had every thing that was
good in its kind, but he wou'd not press his Wine upon us, for the
Churchman's Character, was not to be Sacrific'd to the Soldiers
Appetite; for he who urges the Glass too far, if he is not himself
suspected of Insobriety, is certainly obnoxious to the immoral Part of
the Ceremony.
