The first terrier was back upon him, and he was whirling to meet it, when
a new and equally unprovoked assault was made upon him.  This time it was
Captain Duncan, in a rage at sight of his slain cat.  The instep of his
foot caught Michael squarely under the chest, half knocking the breath
out of him and wholly lifting him into the air, so that he fell heavily
on his side.  The two terriers were upon him, filling their mouths with
his straight, wiry hair as they sank their teeth in.  Still on his side,
as he was beginning to struggle to his feet, he clipped his jaws together
on a leg of one, who screamed with pain and retreated on three legs,
holding up the fourth, a fore leg, the bone of which Michael's teeth had
all but crushed.
Twice Michael slashed the other four-footed foe and then pursued him in a
circle with Captain Duncan pursuing him in turn.  Shortening the distance
by leaping across a chord of the arc of the other's flight, Michael
closed his jaws on the back and side of the neck.  Such abrupt arrest in
mid-flight by the heavier dog brought the fox-terrier down on deck with,
a heavy thump.  Simultaneous with this, Captain Duncan's second kick
landed, communicating such propulsion to Michael as to tear his clenched
teeth through the flesh and out of the flesh of the fox-terrier.
And Michael turned on the Captain.  What if he were a white god?  In his
rage at so many assaults of so many enemies, Michael, who had been
peacefully looking for Kwaque and Steward, did not stop to reckon.
Besides, it was a strange white god upon whom he had never before laid
eyes.
At the beginning he had snarled and growled.  But it was a more serious
affair to attack a god, and no sound came from him as he leaped to meet
the leg flying toward him in another kick.  As with the cat, he did not
leap straight at it.  To the side to avoid, and in with a curve of body
as it passed, was his way.  He had learned the trick with many blacks at
Meringe and on board the _Eugenie_, so that as often he succeeded as
failed at it.  His teeth came together in the slack of the white duck
trousers.  The consequent jerk on Captain Duncan's leg made that
infuriated mariner lose his balance.  Almost he fell forward on his face,
part recovered himself with a violent effort, stumbled over Michael who
was in for another bite, tottered wildly around, and sat down on the
deck.
How long he might have sat there to recover his breath is problematical,
for he rose as rapidly as his stoutness would permit, spurred on by
Michael's teeth already sunk into the fleshy part of his shoulder.
Michael missed his calf as he uprose, but tore the other leg of the
trousers to shreds and received a kick that lifted him a yard above the
deck in a half-somersault and landed him on his back on deck.
