"I rather liked the appearance of the saint, however," said Sylvia, with
an expression of naughty malice, as she began her lunch.
"Why, where did you see him!" exclaimed her brother.
"I went over there yesterday to take a farewell run in the neglected
garden before he came. I knew he was expected, but not that he was here;
and when I saw the house open, I slipped in and peeped wherever I liked.
You are right, Prue; it is a lovely old place."
"Now I know you did something dreadfully unladylike and improper. Put me
out of suspense, I beg of you."
Prue's distressful face and Mark's surprise produced an inspiring effect
upon Sylvia, who continued, with an air of demure satisfaction--
"I strolled about, enjoying myself, till I got into the library, and
there I rummaged, for it was a charming place, and I was happy as only
those are who love books, and feel their influence in the silence of a
room whose finest ornaments they are."
"I hope Moor came in and found you trespassing."
"No, I went out and caught him playing. When I'd stayed as long as I
dared, and borrowed a very interesting old book--
"Sylvia! did you really take one without asking?" cried Prue, looking
almost as much alarmed as if she had stolen the spoons.
"Yes; why not? I can apologize prettily, and it will open the way for
more. I intend to browse over that library for the next six months."
"But it was such a liberty,--so rude, so--- dear, dear; and he as fond
and careful of his books as if they were his children! Well, I wash my
hands of it, and am prepared for anything now!"
Mark enjoyed Sylvia's pranks too much to reprove, so he only laughed
while one sister lamented and the other placidly went on--
"When I had put the book nicely in my pocket, Prue, I walked into the
garden. But before I'd picked a single flower, I heard little Tilly
laugh behind the hedge and some strange voice talking to her. So I
hopped upon a roller to see, and nearly tumbled off again; for there was
a man lying on the grass, with the gardener's children rioting over him.
Will was picking his pockets, and Tilly eating strawberries out of his
hat, often thrusting one into the mouth of her long neighbor, who always
smiled when the little hand came fumbling at his lips. You ought to have
seen the pretty picture, Mark."
"Did he see the interesting picture on your side of the wall?"
"No, I was just thinking what friendly eyes he had, listening to his
pleasant talk with the little folks, and watching how they nestled to
him as if he were a girl, when Tilly looked up and cried, 'I see
Silver!' So I ran away, expecting to have them all come racing after.
But no one appeared, and I only heard a laugh instead of the 'stop
thief' that I deserved."
