Miss La Creevy coughed once more--this cough was to conceal her
disappointment--and said, 'Oh, indeed!'
'I infer from what you said to your servant, that the floor above
belongs to you, ma'am,' said Mr. Nickleby.
Yes it did, Miss La Creevy replied. The upper part of the house belonged
to her, and as she had no necessity for the second-floor rooms just
then, she was in the habit of letting them. Indeed, there was a lady
from the country and her two children in them, at that present speaking.
'A widow, ma'am?' said Ralph.
'Yes, she is a widow,' replied the lady.
'A POOR widow, ma'am,' said Ralph, with a powerful emphasis on that
little adjective which conveys so much.
'Well, I'm afraid she IS poor,' rejoined Miss La Creevy.
'I happen to know that she is, ma'am,' said Ralph. 'Now, what business
has a poor widow in such a house as this, ma'am?'
'Very true,' replied Miss La Creevy, not at all displeased with this
implied compliment to the apartments. 'Exceedingly true.'
'I know her circumstances intimately, ma'am,' said Ralph; 'in fact, I
am a relation of the family; and I should recommend you not to keep them
here, ma'am.'
'I should hope, if there was any incompatibility to meet the pecuniary
obligations,' said Miss La Creevy with another cough, 'that the lady's
family would--'
'No they wouldn't, ma'am,' interrupted Ralph, hastily. 'Don't think it.'
'If I am to understand that,' said Miss La Creevy, 'the case wears a
very different appearance.'
'You may understand it then, ma'am,' said Ralph, 'and make your
arrangements accordingly. I am the family, ma'am--at least, I believe
I am the only relation they have, and I think it right that you should
know I can't support them in their extravagances. How long have they
taken these lodgings for?'
'Only from week to week,' replied Miss La Creevy. 'Mrs. Nickleby paid the
first week in advance.'
'Then you had better get them out at the end of it,' said Ralph.
'They can't do better than go back to the country, ma'am; they are in
everybody's way here.'
'Certainly,' said Miss La Creevy, rubbing her hands, 'if Mrs. Nickleby
took the apartments without the means of paying for them, it was very
unbecoming a lady.'
'Of course it was, ma'am,' said Ralph.
'And naturally,' continued Miss La Creevy, 'I who am, AT
PRESENT--hem--an unprotected female, cannot afford to lose by the
apartments.'
'Of course you can't, ma'am,' replied Ralph.
'Though at the same time,' added Miss La Creevy, who was plainly
wavering between her good-nature and her interest, 'I have nothing
whatever to say against the lady, who is extremely pleasant and affable,
though, poor thing, she seems terribly low in her spirits; nor against
the young people either, for nicer, or better-behaved young people
cannot be.'
'Very well, ma'am,' said Ralph, turning to the door, for these encomiums
on poverty irritated him; 'I have done my duty, and perhaps more than I
ought: of course nobody will thank me for saying what I have.'
