'I am sure I am very much obliged to you at least, sir,' said Miss La
Creevy in a gracious manner. 'Would you do me the favour to look at a
few specimens of my portrait painting?'
'You're very good, ma'am,' said Mr. Nickleby, making off with great
speed; 'but as I have a visit to pay upstairs, and my time is precious,
I really can't.'
'At any other time when you are passing, I shall be most happy,' said
Miss La Creevy. 'Perhaps you will have the kindness to take a card of
terms with you? Thank you--good-morning!'
'Good-morning, ma'am,' said Ralph, shutting the door abruptly after him
to prevent any further conversation. 'Now for my sister-in-law. Bah!'
Climbing up another perpendicular flight, composed with great mechanical
ingenuity of nothing but corner stairs, Mr. Ralph Nickleby stopped to
take breath on the landing, when he was overtaken by the handmaid, whom
the politeness of Miss La Creevy had dispatched to announce him, and
who had apparently been making a variety of unsuccessful attempts, since
their last interview, to wipe her dirty face clean, upon an apron much
dirtier.
'What name?' said the girl.
'Nickleby,' replied Ralph.
'Oh! Mrs. Nickleby,' said the girl, throwing open the door, 'here's Mr
Nickleby.'
A lady in deep mourning rose as Mr. Ralph Nickleby entered, but appeared
incapable of advancing to meet him, and leant upon the arm of a slight
but very beautiful girl of about seventeen, who had been sitting by her.
A youth, who appeared a year or two older, stepped forward and saluted
Ralph as his uncle.
'Oh,' growled Ralph, with an ill-favoured frown, 'you are Nicholas, I
suppose?'
'That is my name, sir,' replied the youth.
'Put my hat down,' said Ralph, imperiously. 'Well, ma'am, how do you do?
You must bear up against sorrow, ma'am; I always do.'
'Mine was no common loss!' said Mrs. Nickleby, applying her handkerchief
to her eyes.
'It was no UNcommon loss, ma'am,' returned Ralph, as he coolly
unbuttoned his spencer. 'Husbands die every day, ma'am, and wives too.'
'And brothers also, sir,' said Nicholas, with a glance of indignation.
'Yes, sir, and puppies, and pug-dogs likewise,' replied his uncle,
taking a chair. 'You didn't mention in your letter what my brother's
complaint was, ma'am.'
'The doctors could attribute it to no particular disease,' said Mrs
Nickleby; shedding tears. 'We have too much reason to fear that he died
of a broken heart.'
'Pooh!' said Ralph, 'there's no such thing. I can understand a man's
dying of a broken neck, or suffering from a broken arm, or a broken
head, or a broken leg, or a broken nose; but a broken heart!--nonsense,
it's the cant of the day. If a man can't pay his debts, he dies of a
broken heart, and his widow's a martyr.'
'Some people, I believe, have no hearts to break,' observed Nicholas,
quietly.
'How old is this boy, for God's sake?' inquired Ralph, wheeling back his
chair, and surveying his nephew from head to foot with intense scorn.
