CHAPTER III
Denham had accused Katharine Hilbery of belonging to one of the most
distinguished families in England, and if any one will take the trouble
to consult Mr. Galton's "Hereditary Genius," he will find that this
assertion is not far from the truth. The Alardyces, the Hilberys, the
Millingtons, and the Otways seem to prove that intellect is a possession
which can be tossed from one member of a certain group to another almost
indefinitely, and with apparent certainty that the brilliant gift will
be safely caught and held by nine out of ten of the privileged race.
They had been conspicuous judges and admirals, lawyers and servants of
the State for some years before the richness of the soil culminated
in the rarest flower that any family can boast, a great writer, a poet
eminent among the poets of England, a Richard Alardyce; and having
produced him, they proved once more the amazing virtues of their race
by proceeding unconcernedly again with their usual task of breeding
distinguished men. They had sailed with Sir John Franklin to the North
Pole, and ridden with Havelock to the Relief of Lucknow, and when they
were not lighthouses firmly based on rock for the guidance of their
generation, they were steady, serviceable candles, illuminating the
ordinary chambers of daily life. Whatever profession you looked
at, there was a Warburton or an Alardyce, a Millington or a Hilbery
somewhere in authority and prominence.
It may be said, indeed, that English society being what it is, no very
great merit is required, once you bear a well-known name, to put you
into a position where it is easier on the whole to be eminent than
obscure. And if this is true of the sons, even the daughters,
even in the nineteenth century, are apt to become people of
importance--philanthropists and educationalists if they are spinsters,
and the wives of distinguished men if they marry. It is true that there
were several lamentable exceptions to this rule in the Alardyce group,
which seems to indicate that the cadets of such houses go more rapidly
to the bad than the children of ordinary fathers and mothers, as if it
were somehow a relief to them. But, on the whole, in these first years
of the twentieth century, the Alardyces and their relations were keeping
their heads well above water. One finds them at the tops of professions,
with letters after their names; they sit in luxurious public offices,
with private secretaries attached to them; they write solid books in
dark covers, issued by the presses of the two great universities, and
when one of them dies the chances are that another of them writes his
biography.
Now the source of this nobility was, of course, the poet, and his
immediate descendants, therefore, were invested with greater luster than
the collateral branches. Mrs. Hilbery, in virtue of her position as
the only child of the poet, was spiritually the head of the family, and
Katharine, her daughter, had some superior rank among all the cousins
and connections, the more so because she was an only child. The
Alardyces had married and intermarried, and their offspring were
generally profuse, and had a way of meeting regularly in each
other's houses for meals and family celebrations which had acquired
a semi-sacred character, and were as regularly observed as days of
feasting and fasting in the Church.
