CHAPTER IV
At about nine o'clock at night, on every alternate Wednesday, Miss Mary
Datchet made the same resolve, that she would never again lend her
rooms for any purposes whatsoever. Being, as they were, rather large and
conveniently situated in a street mostly dedicated to offices off the
Strand, people who wished to meet, either for purposes of enjoyment,
or to discuss art, or to reform the State, had a way of suggesting that
Mary had better be asked to lend them her rooms. She always met the
request with the same frown of well-simulated annoyance, which presently
dissolved in a kind of half-humorous, half-surly shrug, as of a large
dog tormented by children who shakes his ears. She would lend her room,
but only on condition that all the arrangements were made by her. This
fortnightly meeting of a society for the free discussion of everything
entailed a great deal of moving, and pulling, and ranging of furniture
against the wall, and placing of breakable and precious things in safe
places. Miss Datchet was quite capable of lifting a kitchen table on
her back, if need were, for although well-proportioned and
dressed becomingly, she had the appearance of unusual strength and
determination.
She was some twenty-five years of age, but looked older because she
earned, or intended to earn, her own living, and had already lost the
look of the irresponsible spectator, and taken on that of the private in
the army of workers. Her gestures seemed to have a certain purpose, the
muscles round eyes and lips were set rather firmly, as though the senses
had undergone some discipline, and were held ready for a call on them.
She had contracted two faint lines between her eyebrows, not from
anxiety but from thought, and it was quite evident that all the feminine
instincts of pleasing, soothing, and charming were crossed by others in
no way peculiar to her sex. For the rest she was brown-eyed, a little
clumsy in movement, and suggested country birth and a descent from
respectable hard-working ancestors, who had been men of faith and
integrity rather than doubters or fanatics.
At the end of a fairly hard day's work it was certainly something of an
effort to clear one's room, to pull the mattress off one's bed, and lay
it on the floor, to fill a pitcher with cold coffee, and to sweep a long
table clear for plates and cups and saucers, with pyramids of little
pink biscuits between them; but when these alterations were effected,
Mary felt a lightness of spirit come to her, as if she had put off the
stout stuff of her working hours and slipped over her entire being some
vesture of thin, bright silk. She knelt before the fire and looked out
into the room. The light fell softly, but with clear radiance, through
shades of yellow and blue paper, and the room, which was set with one
or two sofas resembling grassy mounds in their lack of shape, looked
unusually large and quiet. Mary was led to think of the heights of
a Sussex down, and the swelling green circle of some camp of ancient
warriors. The moonlight would be falling there so peacefully now, and
she could fancy the rough pathway of silver upon the wrinkled skin of
the sea.
