"And I cannot think of anything more delightful than the joy of a
contented people listening to a great poet and singer while seated
at a feast in a royal hall. But I pine to be at home, and I will declare
my name and tell the story of my sufferings.
"I am the chieftain Odysseus, son of Laertes, and widely known to
fame. I dwell in sunny Ithaca, whose high mountains are seen from
afar, covered with rustling trees. Around it are many smaller islands,
full of people. Ithaca has low shores on the east. It is a rugged
island, but it is the sweetest land on earth, and has a noble race
of mortals. When the Trojan war was at an end, I started for home
with my twelve ships, but a contrary wind drove us to Ismaros, the
city of the Kikonians.
"We captured it and put the inhabitants to the sword. Then I exhorted
my comrades to fly, but, like madmen, they remained on the sea-shore.
Then they slaughtered a large number of sheep and oxen and made a
feast. The Kikonians called on their strong neighbors to come and
help them, and they came in swarms with their brazen spears. They
fell upon our men and killed six of them from each ship, and drove
the rest back to their boats.
"Brisk handling of our oars soon carried us out into the sea, but
Jove sent a hurricane that tore our sails and split our masts, so
that our sailors drew them into the ships in fear. Two days and nights
we lay helpless in our boats, worn out with fear and grief, but the
third day the sun shone on us again, and we raised the masts and sails
to take the breeze, hoping to reach our own land."
CHAPTER XIII
THE LOTUS-EATERS AND THE CYCLOPS
"We sailed onward in a westerly direction, heading for the Grecian
shore, and thought our trials would soon be at an end. But in this
we were disappointed, for when we were about to round the cape at
the southern point of Greece, we met an evil wind which always blows
there, and it drove us far to the east, beyond the island of Cythera.
"Nine days and nine nights we were driven about on the sea by the
violent storm, and on the tenth we reached the land of the Lotus-eaters.
These men eat flowers that look like water-lilies, and they have no
other food. We landed on the shore of the mainland, and my comrades
took their evening meal close to the boats.
"When our hunger was satisfied, I sent out two of the best men to
explore the country about and find out what sort of people the
Lotus-eaters were. I sent a herald with them, whom they might send
back with the news.
"They soon found themselves among the Lotus-eaters, who were gentle
and friendly, and gave them the lotus plant to eat. This food is
pleasant to the taste, but dangerous; for anyone who eats of it loses
all desire to return to his own home. He forgets his cares and troubles,
but also his friends.
