Arete did as her husband wished, and placed a beautiful cup of gold
also in the chest, and led Odysseus up to look at the presents. Then
she taught him how to lock the chest and unlock it, and her maids
called him to a warm bath, after which he anointed himself with
fragrant oil and put on fresh garments.
While he was wending his way to the men who sat before their wine,
he met Nausicaa in her goddess-like beauty, standing near a pillar.
"Stranger, farewell," she said. "I wish thee joy and a safe return
to thy native land. Do not forget that I was the first to befriend
thee in the land of the Phaeacians."
Odysseus answered: "May the gods be as sure to favor my return to
my home as I shall be to make a prayer daily in thy behalf, fair maiden,
who hath saved my life." Then Odysseus entered the great hall and
took his place at the feast.
CHAPTER XII
ODYSSEUS RELATES HIS ADVENTURES
When they had all eaten and drunk to their hearts' content, the hero
begged Demodokos to sing about the invention of the wooden horse with
which Odysseus had artfully tricked the Trojans to their own
destruction.
The minstrel felt the inspiration of the song, and began where the
Greeks threw firebrands into their own tents and sailed away from
Troy, pretending that they had given up the war.
He told how the Trojans wondered what to do with the huge wooden horse
which the enemy had left in their city, whether to hew it to pieces
and burn it, or to drag it to the edge of a high rock and throw it
over, or whether to spare it as an act of reverence to the gods. This
last was done, and in the night Odysseus and his men came out of the
great wooden trap and set fire to the city while the men of Troy slept.
As Demodokos sang, tears rolled down the cheeks of Odysseus. but no
one noticed his weeping except the king, who said: "It is better to
stop the song of Demodokos, as it does not delight us all. Ever since
the bard began to sing, our guest has been weeping. He carries some
great trouble in his heart. Let the song cease, and let us all make
merry. Let no grief mar our banquet. And, honored stranger, tell us
the name of thy father, and the city which is thy home. Our seamen
shall take thee safely to thine own land, although there is a prophecy
that one of our good ships shall be changed into a high rock, to stand
forever in front of our city, if we show such courtesies to strangers.
"Tell us truly who thou art and whither thou hast roamed, what tribes
of men thou hast seen, and why thou dost weep when the minstrel sings
of Troy. Didst thou lose a noble kinsman there, or a dear friend?
For a friend is often dearer than a brother." Odysseus replied: "In
truth, O king, it is a pleasant thing to listen to a bard like Demodokos,
for his voice is as sweet as the voice of a god.
