The king smiled, for he saw what was in her mind, and he ordered the
mules. Then his beautiful daughter brought from the linen-room the
soiled garments and put them on the wagon, while the queen prepared
a goodly lunch of cold meat and bread and a skin of sweet wine.
Nausicaa further received from her mother a bottle of fragrant oil
with which to anoint herself after the washing. Then she mounted the
wagon, seized the whip and reins, and drove out of the city, the
maidens of her train following her on foot.
When they came to the place where the river was flowing bright and
clear, they unhitched the mules and let them browse along the bank.
Then they took their garments down from the wagon and tossed them
into the marble vats which they had filled with the limpid water of
the stream. When they had washed them clean they spread them on the
white pebbles to dry. Having finished the task, they took a bath and
anointed themselves with oil. Then they sat down on the shore and
ate their lunch.
The repast over, they began to play ball. First the white-armed
Nausicaa threw the ball. She looked as tall and royal among her maids
as did Artemis, the daughter of Zeus, among her nymphs.
Nausicaa sang a song as they frolicked on the sand.
When it was time to go home they put the clean garments upon the wagon
and harnessed up the mules. Just as they started, Nausicaa once more
threw the ball to one of the maidens, who failed to catch it. The
ball rebounded from the rocks and fell into the river, at which the
girls raised such a shout that Odysseus, who was sleeping close by,
awoke.
He opened his eyes and sat up, saying to himself: "Woe is me! Have
I reached a country where people dwell? Are they wild and inhospitable,
or friendly to the stranger and god-fearing? It seems to me I heard
cries of women. Perhaps they were those of the nymphs who inhabit
the mountain heights, the springs of rivers, and the green meadows,
or those of people who live near by. But I will see who they are."
So Odysseus clothed himself as best he could, by winding slender
branches covered with leaves about him, and left the thicket where
he was hidden. He went in the direction of the voices, stalking along
like a great lion. When the girls saw him they shrieked and scattered
in every direction. Nausicaa alone stood her ground, for Athena gave
her courage. When Odysseus saw her he wondered which would be the
better, to throw himself at the feet of the maiden and beg her to
give him some clothes and to show him the way to the city, or to speak
to her with more formality.
It seemed better to him to remain at a distance, and so he addressed
her gently, saying: "O queen, I know not whether thou art a goddess
or a woman. If thou art a goddess, I should take thee to be Artemis,
because thou art so tall and graceful. If, however, thou art a mortal,
thrice happy thy father and honored mother. Greatly must they rejoice
when they see their beautiful child in the choral dance. But he will
be the happiest who shall win thee for a bride.
