“Do what you like with me,” said the girl, turning to the men again;
“but do what I ask you first; and I ask you to give this message for
God Almighty’s sake.”
The soft-hearted cook added his intercession, and the result was that
the man who had first appeared undertook its delivery.
“What’s it to be?” said the man, with one foot on the stairs.
“That a young woman earnestly asks to speak to Miss Maylie alone,” said
Nancy; “and, that if the lady will only hear the first word she has to
say, she will know whether to hear her business, or have her turned
out of doors as an impostor.”
“I say,” said the man, “you’re coming it strong!”
“You give the message,” said the girl firmly, “and let me hear the
answer.”
The man ran up stairs, and Nancy remained pale and almost breathless,
listening with quivering lip to the very audible expressions of scorn,
of which the chaste housemaids were very prolific; and became still
more so when the man returned, and said the young woman was to walk up
stairs.
“It’s no good being proper in this world,” said the first housemaid.
“Brass can do better than the gold what has stood the fire,” said the
second.
The third contented herself with wondering “what ladies was made of;”
and the fourth took the first in a quartette of “Shameful!” with which
the Dianas concluded.
Regardless of all this—for she had weightier matters at heart—Nancy
followed the man with trembling limbs to a small antechamber, lighted
by a lamp from the ceiling, in which he left her, and retired.
The girl’s life had been squandered in the streets, and the most
noisome of the stews and dens of London, but there was something of the
woman’s original nature left in her still; and when she heard a light
step approaching the door opposite to that by which she had entered,
and thought of the wide contrast which the small room would in another
moment contain, she felt burdened with the sense of her own deep shame,
and shrunk as though she could scarcely bear the presence of her with
whom she had sought this interview.
But struggling with these better feelings was pride,—the vice of
the lowest and most debased creatures no less than of the high and
self-assured. The miserable companion of thieves and ruffians, the
fallen outcast of low haunts, the associate of the scourings of the
jails and hulks, living within the shadow of the gallows itself,—even
this degraded being felt too proud to betray one feeble gleam of
the womanly feeling which she thought a weakness, but which alone
connected her with that humanity, of which her wasting life had
obliterated all outward traces when a very child.
She raised her eyes sufficiently to observe that the figure which
presented itself was that of a slight and beautiful girl, and then
bending them on the ground, tossed her head with affected carelessness
as she said,
