“Do not heed my friend, Miss Maylie,” said Mr. Brownlow; “he does not
mean what he says.”
“Yes, he does,” growled Mr. Grimwig.
“No, he does not,” said Mr. Brownlow, obviously rising in wrath as he
spoke.
“He’ll eat his head, if he doesn’t,” growled Mr. Grimwig.
“He would deserve to have it knocked off, if he does,” said Mr.
Brownlow.
“And he’d uncommonly like to see any man offer to do it,” responded Mr.
Grimwig, knocking his stick upon the floor.
Having gone thus far, the two old gentlemen severally took snuff, and
afterwards shook hands, according to their invariable custom.
“Now, Miss Maylie,” said Mr. Brownlow, “to return to the subject in
which your humanity is so much interested. Will you let me know what
intelligence you have of this poor child: allowing me to premise that
I exhausted every means in my power of discovering him, and that since
I have been absent from this country, my first impression that he had
imposed upon me, and been persuaded by his former associates to rob me,
has been considerably shaken.”
Rose, who had had time to collect her thoughts, at once related in
a few natural words all that had befallen Oliver since he left Mr.
Brownlow’s house, reserving Nancy’s information for that gentleman’s
private ear, and concluding with the assurance that his only sorrow for
some months past had been the not being able to meet with his former
benefactor and friend.
“Thank God!” said the old gentleman “this is great happiness to me,
great happiness. But you have not told me where he is now, Miss Maylie.
You must pardon my finding fault with you,—but why not have brought
him?”
“He is waiting in a coach at the door,” replied Rose.
“At this door!” cried the old gentleman. With which he hurried out of
the room, down the stairs, up the coach-steps, and into the coach,
without another word.
When the room-door closed behind him, Mr. Grimwig lifted up his head,
and converting one of the hind legs of his chair into a pivot described
three distinct circles with the assistance of his stick and the table:
sitting in it all the time. After performing this evolution, he rose
and limped as fast as he could up and down the room at least a dozen
times, and then stopping suddenly before Rose, kissed her without the
slightest preface.
“Hush!” he said, as the young lady rose in some alarm at this unusual
proceeding, “don’t be afraid; I’m old enough to be your grandfather.
You’re a sweet girl—I like you. Here they are.”
In fact, as he threw himself at one dexterous dive into his former
seat, Mr. Brownlow returned accompanied by Oliver, whom Mr. Grimwig
received very graciously; and if the gratification of that moment had
been the only reward for all her anxiety and care in Oliver’s behalf,
Rose Maylie would have been well repaid.
“There is somebody else who should not be forgotten, by the by,” said
Mr. Brownlow, ringing the bell. “Send Mrs. Bedwin here, if you please.”
