If the King of Clubs saw a comely face, the Queen of Hearts saw what
observing girls call a "good face;" and with a womanly respect for
strength, the manliest attribute of man, she admired the broad
shoulders and six feet one of her new master. This face was not
handsome, for, true to his fatherland, the Professor had an eminent
nose, a blonde beard, and a crop of "bonny brown hair" long enough
to have been gathered into a ribbon, as in the days of Schiller and
Jean Paul; but Dolly liked it, for its strength was tempered with
gentleness; patience and courage gave it dignity, and the glance
that met her own was both keen and kind.
The silk was wound at last, the coat repaired. Dick with difficulty
concealed the growing stiffness of his shoulders, while Dolly turned
up the lamp, which bluntly hinted bedtime, and Mrs. Ward
successfully devoured six gapes behind her hand, but was detected in
the seventh by Mr. Bopp, who glanced at the clock, stopped in the
middle of a sentence, and, with a hurried "goot-night," made for the
door without the least idea whither he was going. Piloted by Dick,
he was installed in the "best chamber," where his waking dreams were
enlivened by a great fire, and his sleeping ones by an endless
succession of skeins, each rapturously concluded in the style of Sam
Weller when folding carpets with the pretty maid.
"I tell you, Dolly, it won't do, and I'm not going to have it."
"Oh, indeed; and how will you help it, you absurd boy?"
"Why, if you don't stop it, I'll just say to Bopp,--'Look here, my
dear fellow; this sister of mine is a capital girl, but she will
flirt and'"--
"And it's a family failing, Dick," cut in Dolly.
"Not a bit of it. I shall say, 'Take care of your heart, Bopp, for
she has a bad habit of playing battle-door and shuttle-cock with
these articles; and, though it may be very good fun for a time, it
makes them ache when they get a last knock and are left to lie in a
corner.'"
"What eloquence! But you'd never dare to try it on Mr. Bopp; and I
shouldn't like to predict what would happen to you if you did."
"If you say 'dare,' I'll do it the first minute I see him. As for
consequences, I don't care that for 'em;" and Dick snapped his
fingers with an aspect of much disdain. But something in his
sister's face suggested the wisdom of moderation, and moved him to
say, less like a lord of creation, and more like a brother who
privately adored his sister, but of course was not going to
acknowledge such a weakness,--
"Well, but soberly, now, I wish you wouldn't plague Bopp; for it's
evident to me that he is hit; and from the way you've gone on these
two months, what else was to be expected? Now, as the head of the
family,--you needn't laugh, for I am,--I think I ought to interfere;
and so I put it to you,--do you like him, and will you have him? or
are you merely amusing yourself, as you have done ever since you
were out of pinafores? If you like him, all serene. I'd rather have
him for a brother than any one I know, for he's a regular trump
though he _is_ poor; but if you don't, I won't have the dear old
fellow floored just because you like to see it done."
