"Don't try to be cutting, Dolly, because you look homely when you
do, and it's a woman's business to be pretty, always. All I've got
to say is, you will be in a nice state of mind if you damage Bopp;
for every one likes him, and will be down upon you for a heartless
little wretch; and I shan't blame them, I promise you."
"I wish the town wouldn't put its fingers in other people's pies,
and you may tell it so, with my compliments; and all _I_ have to say
is, that you men have more liberty than you know what to do with,
and we women haven't enough; so it's perfectly fair that we should
show you the worth of the thing by taking it away now and then. I
shall do exactly as I please; dance, walk, ride, and flirt, whenever
and with whomever I see fit; and the whole town, with Mr. Dick Ward
at their head, can't stop me if I choose to go on. Now, then, what
next?" After which declaration of independence, Dolly folded her
arms, wheeled about and faced her brother, a spirited statuette of
Self Will, in a red hood and mittens.
Dick sternly asked,--
"Is that your firm decision, ma'am?"
"Yes."
"And you will not give up your nonsense?"
"No."
"You are quite sure you don't care for Bopp?"
"I could slap him with all my heart."
"Very good. I shall see that you don't get a chance."
"I wouldn't try a skirmish, for you'll get beaten, Dick."
"We'll prove that, ma'am."
"We will, sir."
And the belligerents loftily paced up the lawn, with their purpose
so well expressed by outward signs, that Mrs. Ward knew, by the cock
of Dick's hat and the decided tap of Dolly's heels, that a storm was
brewing, before they entered the door.
This fraternal conversation took place some two months from the
evening of Mr. Bopp's advent, as the twins were strolling home from
school, which school must be briefly alluded to in order to explain
the foregoing remarks. It was an excellent institution in all
respects; for its presiding genius stood high in the townfolks'
esteem, and might have served as an example to Dr. Watts' "busy
bee," in the zeal with which he improved his "shining hours," and
laid up honey against the winter, which many hoped would be long in
coming. All manner of aids were provided for sprouting souls and
bodies, diversions innumerable, and society, some members of which
might have polished off Alcibiades _a la_ Socrates, or entertained
Plato with "aesthetic tea." But, sad to relate, in spite of all these
blessings, the students who resorted to this academy possessed an
Adam-and-Eve-like proclivity for exactly what they hadn't got and
didn't need; and, not contented with the pleasures provided, must
needs play truant with that young scamp Eros, and turn the ancient
town topsy-turvy with modern innovations, till scandalized spinsters
predicted that the very babies would catch the fever, refuse their
panada in jealous gloom, send billet-doux in their rattles, elope in
wicker-carriages, and set up housekeeping in dolls' houses, after
the latest fashion.
