Mrs. Bernick: Good gracious, Karsten, what is it?
Bernick: Look at this, Krap! Read it!
Krap (reading):  "Do the least repairs possible. Send over 'Indian
Girl' as soon as she is ready to sail; good time of year; at a pinch
her cargo will keep her afloat." Well, I must say--
Rorlund: You see the state of things in these vaunted great communities!
Bernick: You are quite right; not a moment's consideration for human
life, when it is a question of making a profit. (To KRAP:) Can the
"Indian Girl" go to sea in four--or five--days?
Krap: Yes, if Mr. Vigeland will agree to our stopping work on the "Palm
Tree" meanwhile.
Bernick: Hm--he won't. Well, be so good as to look through the letters.
And look here, did you see Olaf down at the quay?
Krap: No, Mr. Bernick. (Goes into BERNICK'S room.)
Bernick (looking at the telegram again): These gentlemen think nothing
of risking eight men's lives--
Hilmar: Well, it is a sailor's calling to brave the elements; it must
be a fine tonic to the nerves to be like that, with only a thin plank
between one and the abyss--
Bernick: I should like to see the ship-owner amongst us who would
condescend to such a thing! There is not one that would do it--not a
single one! (Sees OLAF coming up to the house.) Ah, thank Heaven, here
he is, safe and sound. (OLAF, with a fishing-line in his hand, comes
running up the garden and in through the verandah.)
Olaf: Uncle Hilmar, I have been down and seen the steamer.
Bernick: Have you been down to the quay again?
Olaf: No, I have only been out in a boat. But just think, Uncle Hilmar,
a whole circus company has come on shore, with horses and animals; and
there were such lots of passengers.
Mrs. Rummel:  No, are we really to have a circus?
Rorlund: We? I certainly have no desire to see it.
Mrs. Rummel:  No, of course I don't mean we, but--
Dina: I should like to see a circus very much.
Olaf: So should I.
Hilmar: You are a duffer. Is that anything to see? Mere tricks. No, it
would be something quite different to see the Gaucho careering over the
Pampas on his snorting mustang. But, Heaven help us, in these wretched
little towns of ours.
Olaf (pulling at MARTHA'S dress): Look, Aunt Martha! Look, there they
come!
Mrs. Holt:  Good Lord, yes--here they come.
Mrs. Lynge: Ugh, what horrid people!
(A number of passengers and a whole crowd of townsfolk, are seen coming
up the street.)
Mrs. Rummel: They are a set of mountebanks, certainly. Just look at
that woman in the grey dress, Mrs. Holt--the one with a knapsack over
her shoulder.
Mrs. Holt:  Yes--look--she has slung it on the handle of her parasol.
The manager's wife, I expect.
Mrs. Rummel:  And there is the manager himself, no doubt. He looks a
regular pirate. Don't look at him, Hilda!
Mrs. Holt: Nor you, Netta!
