   O Helen!  Helen! Helen! yet a while,
      Yet for a little while, O, tarry here,
         Till the dawn cometh and the shadows flee!
      For in the gladsome sunlight of thy smile
   Of heaven or hell I have no thought or fear,
         Seeing I know no other god but thee:
   No other god save him, before whose feet
      In nets of gold the tired planets move,
      The incarnate spirit of spiritual love
   Who in thy body holds his joyous seat.
   Thou wert not born as common women are!
      But, girt with silver splendour of the foam,
         Didst from the depths of sapphire seas arise!
      And at thy coming some immortal star,
   Bearded with flame, blazed in the Eastern skies,
         And waked the shepherds on thine island-home.
   Thou shalt not die: no asps of Egypt creep
      Close at thy heels to taint the delicate air;
      No sullen-blooming poppies stain thy hair,
   Those scarlet heralds of eternal sleep.
   Lily of love, pure and inviolate!
      Tower of ivory! red rose of fire!
         Thou hast come down our darkness to illume:
   For we, close-caught in the wide nets of Fate,
      Wearied with waiting for the World’s Desire,
         Aimlessly wandered in the House of gloom,
   Aimlessly sought some slumberous anodyne
      For wasted lives, for lingering wretchedness,
   Till we beheld thy re-arisen shrine,
      And the white glory of thy loveliness.
THE BURDEN OF ITYS
   THIS English Thames is holier far than Rome,
      Those harebells like a sudden flush of sea
   Breaking across the woodland, with the foam
      Of meadow-sweet and white anemone
   To fleck their blue waves,—God is likelier there
   Than hidden in that crystal-hearted star the pale monks bear!
   Those violet-gleaming butterflies that take
      Yon creamy lily for their pavilion
   Are monsignores, and where the rushes shake
      A lazy pike lies basking in the sun,
   His eyes half shut,—he is some mitred old
   Bishop in _partibus_! look at those gaudy scales all green and gold.
   The wind the restless prisoner of the trees
      Does well for Palastrina, one would say
   The mighty master’s hands were on the keys
      Of the Maria organ, which they play
   When early on some sapphire Easter morn
   In a high litter red as blood or sin the Pope is borne
   From his dark House out to the Balcony
      Above the bronze gates and the crowded square,
   Whose very fountains seem for ecstasy
      To toss their silver lances in the air,
   And stretching out weak hands to East and West
   In vain sends peace to peaceless lands, to restless nations rest.
   Is not yon lingering orange after-glow
      That stays to vex the moon more fair than all
   Rome’s lordliest pageants! strange, a year ago
      I knelt before some crimson Cardinal
   Who bare the Host across the Esquiline,
   And now—those common poppies in the wheat seem twice as fine.
   The blue-green beanfields yonder, tremulous
      With the last shower, sweeter perfume bring
   Through this cool evening than the odorous
      Flame-jewelled censers the young deacons swing,
   When the grey priest unlocks the curtained shrine,
   And makes God’s body from the common fruit of corn and vine.
