   The missel-thrush has frighted from the glade,
      One pale narcissus loiters fearfully
   Close to a shadowy nook, where half afraid
      Of their own loveliness some violets lie
   That will not look the gold sun in the face
   For fear of too much splendour,—ah! methinks it is a place
   Which should be trodden by Persephone
      When wearied of the flowerless fields of Dis!
   Or danced on by the lads of Arcady!
      The hidden secret of eternal bliss
   Known to the Grecian here a man might find,
   Ah! you and I may find it now if Love and Sleep be kind.
   There are the flowers which mourning Herakles
      Strewed on the tomb of Hylas, columbine,
   Its white doves all a-flutter where the breeze
      Kissed them too harshly, the small celandine,
   That yellow-kirtled chorister of eve,
   And lilac lady’s-smock,—but let them bloom alone, and leave
   Yon spired hollyhock red-crocketed
      To sway its silent chimes, else must the bee,
   Its little bellringer, go seek instead
      Some other pleasaunce; the anemone
   That weeps at daybreak, like a silly girl
   Before her love, and hardly lets the butterflies unfurl
   Their painted wings beside it,—bid it pine
      In pale virginity; the winter snow
   Will suit it better than those lips of thine
      Whose fires would but scorch it, rather go
   And pluck that amorous flower which blooms alone,
   Fed by the pander wind with dust of kisses not its own.
   The trumpet-mouths of red convolvulus
      So dear to maidens, creamy meadow-sweet
   Whiter than Juno’s throat and odorous
      As all Arabia, hyacinths the feet
   Of Huntress Dian would be loth to mar
   For any dappled fawn,—pluck these, and those fond flowers which are
   Fairer than what Queen Venus trod upon
      Beneath the pines of Ida, eucharis,
   That morning star which does not dread the sun,
      And budding marjoram which but to kiss
   Would sweeten Cytheraa’s lips and make
   Adonis jealous,—these for thy head,—and for thy girdle take
   Yon curving spray of purple clematis
      Whose gorgeous dye outflames the Tyrian King,
   And foxgloves with their nodding chalices,
      But that one narciss which the startled Spring
   Let from her kirtle fall when first she heard
   In her own woods the wild tempestuous song of summer’s bird,
   Ah! leave it for a subtle memory
      Of those sweet tremulous days of rain and sun,
   When April laughed between her tears to see
      The early primrose with shy footsteps run
   From the gnarled oak-tree roots till all the wold,
   Spite of its brown and trampled leaves, grew bright with shimmering
   gold.
   Nay, pluck it too, it is not half so sweet
      As thou thyself, my soul’s idolatry!
   And when thou art a-wearied at thy feet
      Shall oxlips weave their brightest tapestry,
   For thee the woodbine shall forget its pride
   And veil its tangled whorls, and thou shalt walk on daisies pied.
   And I will cut a reed by yonder spring
      And make the wood-gods jealous, and old Pan
   Wonder what young intruder dares to sing
      In these still haunts, where never foot of man
   Should tread at evening, lest he chance to spy
   The marble limbs of Artemis and all her company.
