Bassett had ever been a short-tempered man, and after he sent the second
sheaf of telegrams to his brother captains, and had been laughed at
again, he remained silent.  In this second sheaf he had said: "Come, I
implore you.  As you value your life, come."  He arranged all his
business affairs for an absence, and on the night of March 2 went on
board the _Energon_.  The latter, properly cleared, sailed next morning.
And next morning the newsboys in every city and town were crying "Extra."
In the slang of the day, Goliah had delivered the goods.  The nine
captains of industry who had failed to accept his invitation were dead.
A sort of violent disintegration of the tissues was the report of the
various autopsies held on the bodies of the slain millionaires; yet the
surgeons and physicians (the most highly skilled in the land had
participated) would not venture the opinion that the men had been slain.
Much less would they venture the conclusion, "at the hands of parties
unknown."  It was all too mysterious.  They were stunned.  Their
scientific credulity broke down.  They had no warrant in the whole domain
of science for believing that an anonymous person on Palgrave Island had
murdered the poor gentlemen.
One thing was quickly learned, however; namely, that Palgrave Island was
no myth.  It was charted and well known to all navigators, lying on the
line of 160 west longitude, right at its intersection by the tenth
parallel north latitude, and only a few miles away from Diana Shoal.
Like Midway and Fanning, Palgrave Island was isolated, volcanic and coral
in formation.  Furthermore, it was uninhabited.  A survey ship, in 1887,
had visited the place and reported the existence of several springs and
of a good harbour that was very dangerous of approach.  And that was all
that was known of the tiny speck of land that was soon to have focussed
on it the awed attention of the world.
Goliah remained silent till March 24.  On the morning of that day, the
newspapers published his second letter, copies of which had been received
by the ten chief politicians of the United States--ten leading men in the
political world who were conventionally known as "statesmen."  The
letter, with the same superscription as before, was as follows:
    "DEAR SIR:
    "I have spoken in no uncertain tone.  I must be obeyed.  You may
    consider this an invitation or a summons; but if you still wish to
    tread this earth and laugh, you will be aboard the yacht _Energon_,
    in San Francisco harbour, not later than the evening of April 5.  It
    is my wish and my will that you confer with me here on Palgrave
    Island in the matter of reconstructing society upon some rational
    basis.
    "Do not misunderstand me, when I tell you that I am one with a
    theory.  I want to see that theory work, and therefore I call upon
    your cooperation.  In this theory of mine, lives are but pawns; I
    deal with quantities of lives.  I am after laughter, and those that
    stand in the way of laughter must perish.  The game is big.  There
    are fifteen hundred million human lives to-day on the planet.  What
    is your single life against them?  It is as naught, in my theory.
    And remember that mine is the power.  Remember that I am a scientist,
    and that one life, or one million of lives, mean nothing to me as
    arrayed against the countless billions of billions of the lives of
    the generations to come.  It is for their laughter that I seek to
    reconstruct society now; and against them your own meagre little life
    is a paltry thing indeed.
