But the revolutionists blow hot and blow cold.  They offer facts and
statistics, economics and scientific arguments.  If the working-man be
merely selfish, the revolutionists show him, mathematically demonstrate
to him, that his condition will be bettered by the revolution.  If the
working-man be the higher type, moved by impulses toward right conduct,
if he have soul and spirit, the revolutionists offer him the things of
the soul and the spirit, the tremendous things that cannot be measured by
dollars and cents, nor be held down by dollars and cents.  The
revolutionist cries out upon wrong and injustice, and preaches
righteousness.  And, most potent of all, he sings the eternal song of
human freedom--a song of all lands and all tongues and all time.
Few members of the capitalist class see the revolution.  Most of them are
too ignorant, and many are too afraid to see it.  It is the same old
story of every perishing ruling class in the world's history.  Fat with
power and possession, drunken with success, and made soft by surfeit and
by cessation of struggle, they are like the drones clustered about the
honey vats when the worker-bees spring upon them to end their rotund
existence.
President Roosevelt vaguely sees the revolution, is frightened by it, and
recoils from seeing it.  As he says: "Above all, we need to remember that
any kind of class animosity in the political world is, if possible, even
more wicked, even more destructive to national welfare, than sectional,
race, or religious animosity."
Class animosity in the political world, President Roosevelt maintains, is
wicked.  But class animosity in the political world is the preachment of
the revolutionists.  "Let the class wars in the industrial world
continue," they say, "but extend the class war to the political world."
As their leader, Eugene V. Debs says: "So far as this struggle is
concerned, there is no good capitalist and no bad working-man.  Every
capitalist is your enemy and every working-man is your friend."
Here is class animosity in the political world with a vengeance.  And
here is revolution.  In 1888 there were only 2,000 revolutionists of this
type in the United States; in 1900 there were 127,000 revolutionists; in
1904, 435,000 revolutionists.  Wickedness of the President Roosevelt
definition evidently flourishes and increases in the United States.
Quite so, for it is the revolution that flourishes and increases.
Here and there a member of the capitalist class catches a clear glimpse
of the revolution, and raises a warning cry.  But his class does not
heed.  President Eliot of Harvard raised such a cry:
"I am forced to believe there is a present danger of socialism never
before so imminent in America in so dangerous a form, because never
before imminent in so well organized a form.  The danger lies in the
obtaining control of the trades-unions by the socialists."  And the
capitalist employers, instead of giving heed to the warnings, are
perfecting their strike-breaking organization and combining more strongly
than ever for a general assault upon that dearest of all things to the
trades-unions--the closed shop.  In so far as this assault succeeds, by
just that much will the capitalist class shorten its lease of life.  It
is the old, old story, over again and over again.  The drunken drones
still cluster greedily about the honey vats.
