But no.  As I said, he fixed me with a cold and glittering eye, and in it
was the aristocrat's undisguised contempt for the _canaille_.  Behind him
was the solid phalanx of a bourgeois society.  Law and order upheld him,
while I titubated, cabbageless, on the ragged edge.  Moreover, he was
possessed of a formula whereby to extract juice from a flattened lemon,
and he would do business with me.
I told him my desires humbly, in quavering syllables.  In return, he
craved my antecedents and residence, pried into my private life,
insolently demanded how many children had I and did I live in wedlock,
and asked divers other unseemly and degrading questions.  Ay, I was
treated like a thief convicted before the act, till I produced my
certificates of goods and chattels aforementioned.  Never had they
appeared so insignificant and paltry as then, when he sniffed over them
with the air of one disdainfully doing a disagreeable task.  It is said,
"Thou shalt not lend upon usury to thy brother; usury of money, usury of
victuals, usury of anything that is lent upon usury"; but he evidently
was not my brother, for he demanded seventy per cent.  I put my signature
to certain indentures, received my pottage, and fled from his presence.
Faugh!  I was glad to be quit of it.  How good the outside air was!  I
only prayed that neither my best friend nor my worst enemy should ever
become aware of what had just transpired.  Ere I had gone a block I
noticed that the sun had brightened perceptibly, the street become less
sordid, the gutter mud less filthy.  In people's eyes the cabbage
question no longer brooded.  And there was a spring to my body, an
elasticity of step as I covered the pavement.  Within me coursed an
unwonted sap, and I felt as though I were about to burst out into leaves
and buds and green things.  My brain was clear and refreshed.  There was
a new strength to my arm.  My nerves were tingling and I was a-pulse with
the times.  All men were my brothers.  Save one--yes, save one.  I would
go back and wreck the establishment.  I would disrupt that leather-bound
volume, violate that black skullcap, burn the accounts.  But before fancy
could father the act, I recollected myself and all which had passed.  Nor
did I marvel at my new-horn might, at my ancient dignity which had
returned.  There was a tinkling chink as I ran the yellow pieces through
my fingers, and with the golden music rippling round me I caught a deeper
insight into the mystery of things.
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA.
_February_ 1900.
GOLIAH
In 1924--to be precise, on the morning of January 3--the city of San
Francisco awoke to read in one of its daily papers a curious letter,
which had been received by Walter Bassett and which had evidently been
written by some crank.  Walter Bassett was the greatest captain of
industry west of the Rockies, and was one of the small group that
controlled the nation in everything but name.  As such, he was the
recipient of lucubrations from countless cranks; but this particular
lucubration was so different from the average ruck of similar letters
that, instead of putting it into the waste-basket, he had turned it over
to a reporter.  It was signed "Goliah," and the superscription gave his
address as "Palgrave Island."  The letter was as follows:
