   Rich. He that bereft the Lady of thy Husband,
Did it to helpe thee to a better Husband
   An. His better doth not breath vpon the earth
   Rich. He liues, that loues thee better then he could
   An. Name him
   Rich. Plantagenet
   An. Why that was he
   Rich. The selfesame name, but one of better Nature
   An. Where is he?
  Rich. Heere:
Spits at him.
Why dost thou spit at me
   An. Would it were mortall poyson, for thy sake
   Rich. Neuer came poyson from so sweet a place
   An. Neuer hung poyson on a fowler Toade.
Out of my sight, thou dost infect mine eyes
   Rich. Thine eyes (sweet Lady) haue infected mine
   An. Would they were Basiliskes, to strike thee dead
   Rich. I would they were, that I might dye at once:
For now they kill me with a liuing death.
Those eyes of thine, from mine haue drawne salt Teares;
Sham'd their Aspects with store of childish drops:
These eyes, which neuer shed remorsefull teare,
No, when my Father Yorke, and Edward wept,
To heare the pittious moane that Rutland made
When black-fac'd Clifford shooke his sword at him.
Nor when thy warlike Father like a Childe,
Told the sad storie of my Fathers death,
And twenty times, made pause to sob and weepe:
That all the standers by had wet their cheekes
Like Trees bedash'd with raine. In that sad time,
My manly eyes did scorne an humble teare:
And what these sorrowes could not thence exhale,
Thy Beauty hath, and made them blinde with weeping.
I neuer sued to Friend, nor Enemy:
My Tongue could neuer learne sweet smoothing word.
But now thy Beauty is propos'd my Fee,
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speake.
She lookes scornfully at him.
Teach not thy lip such Scorne; for it was made
For kissing Lady, not for such contempt.
If thy reuengefull heart cannot forgiue,
Loe heere I lend thee this sharpe-pointed Sword,
Which if thou please to hide in this true brest,
And let the Soule forth that adoreth thee,
I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
And humbly begge the death vpon my knee,
He layes his brest open, she offers at with his sword.
Nay do not pause: For I did kill King Henrie,
But 'twas thy Beauty that prouoked me.
Nay now dispatch: 'Twas I that stabb'd yong Edward,
But 'twas thy Heauenly face that set me on.
She fals the Sword.
Take vp the Sword againe, or take vp me
   An. Arise Dissembler, though I wish thy death,
I will not be thy Executioner
   Rich. Then bid me kill my selfe, and I will do it
   An. I haue already
   Rich. That was in thy rage:
Speake it againe, and euen with the word,
This hand, which for thy loue, did kill thy Loue,
Shall for thy loue, kill a farre truer Loue,
To both their deaths shalt thou be accessary
   An. I would I knew thy heart
