Scena Tertia.
Enter the Queene Mother, Lord Riuers, and Lord Gray.
  Riu. Haue patience Madam, ther's no doubt his Maiesty
Will soone recouer his accustom'd health
   Gray. In that you brooke it ill, it makes him worse,
Therefore for Gods sake entertaine good comfort,
And cheere his Grace with quicke and merry eyes
  Qu. If he were dead, what would betide on me?
If he were dead, what would betide on me?
  Gray. No other harme, but losse of such a Lord
   Qu. The losse of such a Lord, includes all harmes
   Gray. The Heauens haue blest you with a goodly Son,
To be your Comforter, when he is gone
   Qu. Ah! he is yong; and his minority
Is put vnto the trust of Richard Glouster,
A man that loues not me, nor none of you
   Riu. Is it concluded he shall be Protector?
  Qu. It is determin'd, not concluded yet:
But so it must be, if the King miscarry.
Enter Buckingham and Derby.
  Gray. Here comes the Lord of Buckingham & Derby
   Buc. Good time of day vnto your Royall Grace
   Der. God make your Maiesty ioyful, as you haue bin
  Qu. The Countesse Richmond, good my L[ord]. of Derby.
To your good prayer, will scarsely say, Amen.
Yet Derby, not withstanding shee's your wife,
And loues not me, be you good Lord assur'd,
I hate not you for her proud arrogance
   Der. I do beseech you, either not beleeue
The enuious slanders of her false Accusers:
Or if she be accus'd on true report,
Beare with her weaknesse, which I thinke proceeds
From wayward sicknesse, and no grounded malice
   Qu. Saw you the King to day my Lord of Derby
   Der. But now the Duke of Buckingham and I,
Are come from visiting his Maiesty
   Que. What likelyhood of his amendment Lords
   Buc. Madam good hope, his Grace speaks chearfully
   Qu. God grant him health, did you confer with him?
  Buc. I Madam, he desires to make attonement
Betweene the Duke of Glouster, and your Brothers,
And betweene them, and my Lord Chamberlaine,
And sent to warne them to his Royall presence
   Qu. Would all were well, but that will neuer be,
I feare our happinesse is at the height.
Enter Richard.
  Rich. They do me wrong, and I will not indure it,
Who is it that complaines vnto the King,
That I (forsooth) am sterne, and loue them not?
By holy Paul, they loue his Grace but lightly,
That fill his eares with such dissentious Rumors.
Because I cannot flatter, and looke faire,
Smile in mens faces, smooth, deceiue, and cogge,
Ducke with French nods, and Apish curtesie,
I must be held a rancorous Enemy.
Cannot a plaine man liue, and thinke no harme,
But thus his simple truth must be abus'd,
With silken, slye, insinuating Iackes?
  Grey. To who in all this presence speaks your Grace?
  Rich. To thee, that hast nor Honesty, nor Grace:
When haue I iniur'd thee? When done thee wrong?
Or thee? or thee? or any of your Faction?
A plague vpon you all. His Royall Grace
(Whom God preserue better then you would wish)
Cannot be quiet scarse a breathing while,
But you must trouble him with lewd complaints
