"Behold yourself in this mirror, then; it is a Venetian mirror from
Murano, the true _nosce teipsum_, as I have named it, compared with
which the finest mirror of steel or silver is mere darkness.  See now,
how by diligent shaving, the nether region of your face may preserve its
human outline, instead of presenting no distinction from the physiognomy
of a bearded owl or a Barbary ape.  I have seen men whose beards have so
invaded their cheeks, that one might have pitied them as the victims of
a sad, brutalising chastisement befitting our Dante's Inferno, if they
had not seemed to strut with a strange triumph in their extravagant
hairiness."
"It seems to me," said the Greek, still looking into the mirror, "that
you have taken away some of my capital with your razor--I mean a year or
two of age, which might have won me more ready credit for my learning.
Under the inspection of a patron whose vision has grown somewhat dim, I
shall have a perilous resemblance to a maiden of eighteen in the
disguise of hose and jerkin."
"Not at all," said Nello, proceeding to clip the too extravagant curls;
"your proportions are not those of a maiden.  And for your age, I myself
remember seeing Angelo Poliziano begin his lectures on the Latin
language when he had a younger beard than yours; and between ourselves,
his juvenile ugliness was not less signal than his precocious
scholarship.  Whereas you--no, no, your age is not against you; but
between ourselves, let me hint to you that your being a Greek, though it
be only an Apulian Greek, is not in your favour.  Certain of our
scholars hold that your Greek learning is but a wayside degenerate plant
until it has been transplanted into Italian brains, and that now there
is such a plentiful crop of the superior quality, your native teachers
are mere propagators of degeneracy.  Ecco! your curls are now of the
right proportion to neck and shoulders; rise, Messer, and I will free
you from the encumbrance of this cloth.  _Gnaffe_!  I almost advise you
to retain the faded jerkin and hose a little longer; they give you the
air of a fallen prince."
"But the question is," said the young Greek, leaning against the high
back of a chair, and returning Nello's contemplative admiration with a
look of inquiring anxiety; "the question is, in what quarter I am to
carry my princely air, so as to rise from the said fallen condition.  If
your Florentine patrons of learning share this scholarly hostility to
the Greeks, I see not how your city can be a hospitable refuge for me,
as you seemed to say just now."
"_Pian piano_--not so fast," said Nello, sticking his thumbs into his
belt and nodding to Sandro to restore order.  "I will not conceal from
you that there is a prejudice against Greeks among us; and though, as a
barber unsnared by authorship, I share no prejudices, I must admit that
the Greeks are not always such pretty youngsters as yourself: their
erudition is often of an uncombed, unmannerly aspect, and encrusted with
a barbarous utterance of Italian, that makes their converse hardly more
euphonious than that of a Tedesco in a state of vinous loquacity.  And
then, again, excuse me--we Florentines have liberal ideas about speech,
and consider that an instrument which can flatter and promise so
cleverly as the tongue, must have been partly made for those purposes;
and that truth is a riddle for eyes and wit to discover, which it were a
mere spoiling of sport for the tongue to betray.  Still we have our
limits beyond which we call dissimulation treachery.  But it is said of
the Greeks that their honesty begins at what is the hanging point with
us, and that since the old Furies went to sleep, your Christian Greek is
of so easy a conscience that he would make a stepping-stone of his
father's corpse."
