The flush on the stranger's face indicated what seemed so natural a
movement of resentment, that the good-natured Nello hastened to atone
for his want of reticence.
"Be not offended, _bel giovane_; I am but repeating what I hear in my
shop; as you may perceive, my eloquence is simply the cream which I skim
off my clients' talk.  Heaven forbid I should fetter my impartiality by
entertaining an opinion.  And for that same scholarly objection to the
Greeks," added Nello, in a more mocking tone, and with a significant
grimace, "the fact is, you are heretics, Messer; jealousy has nothing to
do with it: if you would just change your opinion about leaven, and
alter your Doxology a little, our Italian scholars would think it a
thousand years till they could give up their chairs to you.  Yes, yes;
it is chiefly religious scruple, and partly also the authority of a
great classic,--Juvenal, is it not?  He, I gather, had his bile as much
stirred by the swarm of Greeks as our Messer Angelo, who is fond of
quoting some passage about their incorrigible impudence--_audacia
perdita_."
"Pooh! the passage is a compliment," said the Greek, who had recovered
himself, and seemed wise enough to take the matter gaily--
  "`Ingenium velox, audacia perdita, sermo
  Promptus, et Isaeo torrentior.'
"A rapid intellect and ready eloquence may carry off a little
impudence."
"Assuredly," said Nello.  "And since, as I see, you know Latin
literature as well as Greek, you will not fall into the mistake of
Giovanni Argiropulo, who ran full tilt against Cicero, and pronounced
him all but a pumpkin-head.  For, let me give you one bit of advice,
young man--trust a barber who has shaved the best chins, and kept his
eyes and ears open for twenty years--oil your tongue well when you talk
of the ancient Latin writers, and give it an extra dip when you talk of
the modern.  A wise Greek may win favour among us; witness our excellent
Demetrio, who is loved by many, and not hated immoderately even by the
most renowned scholars."
"I discern the wisdom of your advice so clearly," said the Greek, with
the bright smile which was continually lighting up the fine form and
colour of his young face, "that I will ask you for a little more.  Who
now, for example, would be the most likely patron for me?  Is there a
son of Lorenzo who inherits his tastes?  Or is there any other wealthy
Florentine specially addicted to purchasing antique gems?  I have a fine
Cleopatra cut in sardonyx, and one or two other intaglios and cameos,
both curious and beautiful, worthy of being added to the cabinet of a
prince.  Happily, I had taken the precaution of fastening them within
the lining of my doublet before I set out on my voyage.  Moreover, I
should like to raise a small sum for my present need on this ring of
mine," (here he took out the ring and replaced it on his finger), "if
you could recommend me to any honest trafficker."
