"Ay, and thou wilt see it thyself, Nanni, if thou wilt stare upward long
enough," said Niccolo; "for that pitiable tailor's work of thine makes
thy noddle so overhang thy legs, that thy eyeballs can see nought above
the stitching-board but the roof of thy own skull."
The honest tailor bore the jest without bitterness, bent on convincing
his hearers of his doctrine rather than of his dignity.  But Niccolo
gave him no opportunity for replying; for he turned away to the pursuit
of his market business, probably considering further dialogue as a
tinkling on cold iron.
"_Ebbene_" said the man with the hose round his neck, who had lately
migrated from another knot of talkers, "they are safest who cross
themselves and jest at nobody.  Do you know that the Magnifico sent for
the Frate at the last, and couldn't die without his blessing?"
"Was it so--in truth?" said several voices.  "Yes, yes--God will have
pardoned him."
"He died like the best of Christians."
"Never took his eyes from the holy crucifix."
"And the Frate will have given him his blessing?"
"Well, I know no more," said he of the hosen, "only Guccio there met a
footman going back to Careggi, and he told him the Frate had been sent
for yesternight, after the Magnifico had confessed and had the holy
sacraments."
"It's likely enough the Frate will tell the people something about it in
his sermon this morning; is it not true, Nanni?" said Goro.  "What do
you think?"
But Nanni had already turned his back on Goro, and the group was rapidly
thinning; some being stirred by the impulse to go and hear "new things"
from the Frate ("new things" were the nectar of Florentines); others by
the sense that it was time to attend to their private business.  In this
general movement, Bratti got close to the barber, and said--
"Nello, you've a ready tongue of your own, and are used to worming
secrets out of people when you've once got them well lathered.  I picked
up a stranger this morning as I was coming in from Rovezzano, and I can
spell him out no better than I can the letters on that scarf I bought
from the French cavalier.  It isn't my wits are at fault,--I want no man
to help me tell peas from paternosters,--but when you come to foreign
fashions, a fool may happen to know more than a wise man."
"Ay, thou hast the wisdom of Midas, who could turn rags and rusty nails
into gold, even as thou dost," said Nello, "and he had also something of
the ass about him.  But where is thy bird of strange plumage?"
Bratti was looking round, with an air of disappointment.
"Diavolo!" he said, with some vexation.  "The bird's flown.  It's true
he was hungry, and I forgot him.  But we shall find him in the Mercato,
within scent of bread and savours, I'll answer for him."
"Let us make the round of the Mercato, then," said Nello.
