Yes, Phebe was herself now, and showed it in the change that came over
her at the first note of music. No longer shy and silent, no longer
the image of a handsome girl, but a blooming woman, alive and full of
the eloquence her art gave her, as she laid her hands softly together,
fixed her eye on the light, and just poured out her song as simply
and joyfully as the lark does soaring toward the sun.
"My faith, Alec! that's the sort of voice that wins a man's heart out
of his breast!" exclaimed Uncle Mac, wiping his eyes after one of the
plaintive ballads that never grow old.
"So it would!" answered Dr. Alec, delightedly.
"So it has," added Archie to himself; and he was right: for, just at
that moment, he fell in love with Phebe. He actually did, and could
fix the time almost to a second: for, at a quarter past nine, he
merely thought her a very charming young person; at twenty minutes
past, he considered her the loveliest woman he ever beheld; at five
and twenty minutes past, she was an angel singing his soul away; and
at half after nine he was a lost man, floating over a delicious sea to
that temporary heaven on earth where lovers usually land after the
first rapturous plunge.
If any one had mentioned this astonishing fact, nobody would have
believed it; nevertheless, it was quite true: and sober, business-like
Archie suddenly discovered a fund of romance at the bottom of his
hitherto well-conducted heart that amazed him. He was not quite clear
what had happened to him at first, and sat about in a dazed sort of
way; seeing, hearing, knowing nothing but Phebe: while the unconscious
idol found something wanting in the cordial praise so modestly
received, because Mr. Archie never said a word.
This was one of the remarkable things which occurred that evening;
another was that Mac paid Rose a compliment, which was such an
unprecedented fact, it produced a great sensation, though only one
person heard it.
Everybody had gone but Mac and his father, who was busy with the
Doctor. Aunt Plenty was counting the teaspoons in the dining-room, and
Phebe was helping her as of old. Mac and Rose were alone,--he
apparently in a brown study, leaning his elbows on the chimney-piece;
and she lying back in a low chair, looking thoughtfully at the fire.
She was tired; and the quiet was grateful to her: so she kept silence
and Mac respectfully held his tongue. Presently, however, she became
conscious that he was looking at her as intently as eyes and glasses
could do it; and, without stirring from her comfortable attitude, she
said, smiling up at him,--
"He looks as wise as an owl: I wonder what he's thinking about?"
"You, cousin."
"Something good, I hope?"
"I was thinking Leigh Hunt was about right when he said, 'A girl is
the sweetest thing God ever made.'"
