Just then a dim figure approached me from the direction of Virginia--a
man, evidently.  He came straight at me, and I stepped aside to let him
pass; he stepped in the way and confronted me again.  Then I saw that he
had a mask on and was holding something in my face--I heard a click-click
and recognized a revolver in dim outline.  I pushed the barrel aside with
my hand and said:
"Don't!"
He ejaculated sharply:
"Your watch!  Your money!"
I said:
"You can have them with pleasure--but take the pistol away from my face,
please.  It makes me shiver."
"No remarks!  Hand out your money!"
"Certainly--I--"
"Put up your hands!  Don't you go for a weapon!  Put 'em up!  Higher!"
I held them above my head.
A pause.  Then:
"Are you going to hand out your money or not?"
I dropped my hands to my pockets and said:
Certainly!  I--"
"Put up your hands!  Do you want your head blown off?  Higher!"
I put them above my head again.
Another pause.
Are you going to hand out your money or not?  Ah-ah--again?  Put up your
hands!  By George, you want the head shot off you awful bad!"
"Well, friend, I'm trying my best to please you.  You tell me to give up
my money, and when I reach for it you tell me to put up my hands.  If you
would only--.  Oh, now--don't!  All six of you at me!  That other man
will get away while.--Now please take some of those revolvers out of my
face--do, if you please!  Every time one of them clicks, my liver comes
up into my throat!  If you have a mother--any of you--or if any of you
have ever had a mother--or a--grandmother--or a--"
"Cheese it!  Will you give up your money, or have we got to--.  There
--there--none of that!  Put up your hands!"
"Gentlemen--I know you are gentlemen by your--"
"Silence!  If you want to be facetious, young man, there are times and
places more fitting.  This is a serious business."
"You prick the marrow of my opinion.  The funerals I have attended in my
time were comedies compared to it.  Now I think--"
"Curse your palaver!  Your money!--your money!--your money!  Hold!--put
up your hands!"
"Gentlemen, listen to reason.  You see how I am situated--now don't put
those pistols so close--I smell the powder.
"You see how I am situated.  If I had four hands--so that I could hold up
two and--"
"Throttle him!  Gag him!  Kill him!"
"Gentlemen, don't!  Nobody's watching the other fellow.  Why don't some
of you--.  Ouch!  Take it away, please!
"Gentlemen, you see that I've got to hold up my hands; and so I can't take
out my money--but if you'll be so kind as to take it out for me, I will
do as much for you some--"
"Search him Beauregard--and stop his jaw with a bullet, quick, if he wags
it again.  Help Beauregard, Stonewall."
Then three of them, with the small, spry leader, adjourned to Mike and
fell to searching him.  I was so excited that my lawless fancy tortured
me to ask my two men all manner of facetious questions about their rebel
brother-generals of the South, but, considering the order they had
received, it was but common prudence to keep still.  When everything had
been taken from me,--watch, money, and a multitude of trifles of small
value,--I supposed I was free, and forthwith put my cold hands into my
empty pockets and began an inoffensive jig to warm my feet and stir up
some latent courage--but instantly all pistols were at my head, and the
order came again:
