“Drink!” she said.
He took the cup, and was carrying it to his lips when a Gaul, the same
that had been hurt by Gisco, struck him on the shoulder, while in a
jovial manner he gave utterance to pleasantries in his native tongue.
Spendius was not far off, and he volunteered to interpret them.
“Speak!” said Matho.
“The gods protect you; you are going to become rich. When will the
nuptials be?”
“What nuptials?”
“Yours! for with us,” said the Gaul, “when a woman gives drink to
a soldier, it means that she offers him her couch.”
He had not finished when Narr’ Havas, with a bound, drew a javelin
from his girdle, and, leaning his right foot upon the edge of the table,
hurled it against Matho.
The javelin whistled among the cups, and piercing the Lybian’s arm,
pinned it so firmly to the cloth, that the shaft quivered in the air.
Matho quickly plucked it out; but he was weaponless and naked; at last
he lifted the over-laden table with both arms, and flung it against
Narr’ Havas into the very centre of the crowd that rushed between
them. The soldiers and Numidians pressed together so closely that they
were unable to draw their swords. Matho advanced dealing great blows
with his head. When he raised it, Narr’ Havas had disappeared. He
sought for him with his eyes. Salammbô also was gone.
Then directing his looks to the palace he perceived the red door with
the black cross closing far above, and he darted away.
They saw him run between the prows of the galleys, and then reappear
along the three staircases until he reached the red door against which
he dashed his whole body. Panting, he leaned against the wall to keep
himself from falling.
But a man had followed him, and through the darkness, for the lights
of the feast were hidden by the corner of the palace, he recognised
Spendius.
“Begone!” said he.
The slave without replying began to tear his tunic with his teeth;
then kneeling beside Matho he tenderly took his arm, and felt it in the
shadow to discover the wound.
By a ray of the moon which was then gliding between the clouds, Spendius
perceived a gaping wound in the middle of the arm. He rolled the piece
of stuff about it, but the other said irritably, “Leave me! leave
me!”
“Oh no!” replied the slave. “You released me from the ergastulum.
I am yours! you are my master! command me!”
Matho walked round the terrace brushing against the walls. He strained
his ears at every step, glancing down into the silent apartments through
the spaces between the gilded reeds. At last he stopped with a look of
despair.
“Listen!” said the slave to him. “Oh! do not despise me for my
feebleness! I have lived in the palace. I can wind like a viper through
the walls. Come! in the Ancestor’s Chamber there is an ingot of gold
beneath every flagstone; an underground path leads to their tombs.”
