“Well! what matters it?” said Matho.
Spendius was silent.
They were on the terrace. A huge mass of shadow stretched before them,
appearing as if it contained vague accumulations, like the gigantic
billows of a black and petrified ocean.
But a luminous bar rose towards the East; far below, on the left, the
canals of Megara were beginning to stripe the verdure of the gardens
with their windings of white. The conical roofs of the heptagonal
temples, the staircases, terraces, and ramparts were being carved by
degrees upon the paleness of the dawn; and a girdle of white foam rocked
around the Carthaginian peninsula, while the emerald sea appeared as if
it were curdled in the freshness of the morning. Then as the rosy sky
grew larger, the lofty houses, bending over the sloping soil, reared
and massed themselves like a herd of black goats coming down from the
mountains. The deserted streets lengthened; the palm-trees that topped
the walls here and there were motionless; the brimming cisterns seemed
like silver bucklers lost in the courts; the beacon on the promontory of
Hermaum was beginning to grow pale. The horses of Eschmoun, on the very
summit of the Acropolis in the cypress wood, feeling that the light was
coming, placed their hoofs on the marble parapet, and neighed towards
the sun.
It appeared, and Spendius raised his arms with a cry.
Everything stirred in a diffusion of red, for the god, as if he were
rending himself, now poured full-rayed upon Carthage the golden rain
of his veins. The beaks of the galleys sparkled, the roof of Khamon
appeared to be all in flames, while far within the temples, whose
doors were opening, glimmerings of light could be seen. Large chariots,
arriving from the country, rolled their wheels over the flagstones
in the streets. Dromedaries, baggage-laden, came down the ramps.
Money-changers raised the pent-houses of their shops at the cross ways,
storks took to flight, white sails fluttered. In the wood of Tanith
might be heard the tabourines of the sacred courtesans, and the furnaces
for baking the clay coffins were beginning to smoke on the Mappalian
point.
Spendius leaned over the terrace; his teeth chattered and he repeated:
“Ah! yes—yes—master! I understand why you scorned the pillage of
the house just now.”
Matho was as if he had just been awaked by the hissing of his voice, and
did not seem to understand. Spendius resumed:
“Ah! what riches! and the men who possess them have not even the steel
to defend them!”
Then, pointing with his right arm outstretched to some of the populace
who were crawling on the sand outside the mole to look for gold dust:
“See!” he said to him, “the Republic is like these wretches:
bending on the brink of the ocean, she buries her greedy arms in every
shore, and the noise of the billows so fills her ear that she cannot
hear behind her the tread of a master’s heel!”
He drew Matho to quite the other end of the terrace, and showed him the
garden, wherein the soldiers’ swords, hanging on the trees, were like
mirrors in the sun.
