"What is, then?"
He paused, a little askance at the question. "To do better--to do my best,"
he said, with a sudden flourish of firmness. "To take warning by this
dreadful--"
"Oh, be silent," she cried out, and hid her face. He looked at her
hopelessly.
At last he said: "I don't know what good it can do to go on talking. I have
only one more thing to say. Of course you know that you are free."
He spoke simply, with a sudden return to his old voice and accent, at which
she weakened as under a caress. She lifted her head and gazed at him. "Am
I?" she said musingly.
"Kate!" burst from him; but she raised a silencing hand.
"It seems to me," she said, "that I am imprisoned--imprisoned with you in
this dreadful thing. First I must help you to get out--then it will be time
enough to think of myself."
His face fell and he stammered: "I don't understand you."
"I can't say what I shall do--or how I shall feel--till I know what you are
going to do and feel."
"You must see how I feel--that I'm half dead with it."
"Yes--but that is only half."
He turned this over for a perceptible space of time before asking slowly:
"You mean that you'll give me up, if I don't do this crazy thing you
propose?"
She paused in turn. "No," she said; "I don't want to bribe you. You must
feel the need of it yourself."
"The need of proclaiming this thing publicly?"
"Yes."
He sat staring before him. "Of course you realize what it would mean?" he
began at length.
"To you?" she returned.
"I put that aside. To others--to you. I should go to prison."
"I suppose so," she said simply.
"You seem to take it very easily--I'm afraid my mother wouldn't."
"Your mother?" This produced the effect he had expected.
"You hadn't thought of her, I suppose? It would probably kill her."
"It would have killed her to think that you could do what you have done!"
"It would have made her very unhappy; but there's a difference."
Yes: there was a difference; a difference which no rhetoric could disguise.
The secret sin would have made Mrs. Peyton wretched, but it would not
have killed her. And she would have taken precisely Denis's view of the
elasticity of atonement: she would have accepted private regrets as
the genteel equivalent of open expiation. Kate could even imagine her
extracting a "lesson" from the providential fact that her son had not
been found out.
"You see it's not so simple," he broke out, with a tinge of doleful
triumph.
"No: it's not simple," she assented.
"One must think of others," he continued, gathering faith in his argument
as he saw her reduced to acquiescence.
She made no answer, and after a moment he rose to go. So far, in
retrospect, she could follow the course of their talk; but when, in the
act of parting, argument lapsed into entreaty, and renunciation into the
passionate appeal to give him at least one more hearing, her memory lost
itself in a tumult of pain, and she recalled only that, when the door
closed on him, he took with him her promise to see him once again.
