Thus, in broken phrases, he flung his defence at her: a defence improvised,
pieced together as he went along, to mask the crude instinctiveness of his
act. For with increasing clearness Kate saw, as she listened, that there
had been no real struggle in his mind; that, but for the grim logic of
chance, he might never have felt the need of any justification. If the
woman, after the manner of such baffled huntresses, had wandered off in
search of fresh prey, he might, quite sincerely, have congratulated himself
on having saved a decent name and an honest fortune from her talons. It was
the price she had paid to establish her claim that for the first time
brought him to a startled sense of its justice. His conscience responded
only to the concrete pressure of facts.
It was with the anguish of this discovery that Kate Orme locked herself in
at the end of their talk. How the talk had ended, how at length she had got
him from the room and the house, she recalled but confusedly. The tragedy
of the woman's death, and of his own share in it, were as nothing in the
disaster of his bright irreclaimableness. Once, when she had cried out,
"You would have married me and said nothing," and he groaned back, "But
I _have_ told you," she felt like a trainer with a lash above some
bewildered animal.
But she persisted savagely. "You told me because you had to; because your
nerves gave way; because you knew it couldn't hurt you to tell." The
perplexed appeal of his gaze had almost checked her. "You told me because
it was a relief; but nothing will really relieve you--nothing will really
help you--till you have told some one who--who _will_ hurt you."
"Who will hurt me--?"
"Till you have told the truth as--as openly as you lied."
He started up, ghastly with fear. "I don't understand you."
"You must confess, then--publicly--openly--you must go to the judge. I
don't know how it's done."
"To the judge? When they're both dead? When everything is at an end? What
good could that do?" he groaned.
"Everything is not at an end for you--everything is just beginning. You
must clear yourself of this guilt; and there is only one way--to confess
it. And you must give back the money."
This seemed to strike him as conclusive proof of her irrelevance. "I wish I
had never heard of the money! But to whom would you have me give it back? I
tell you she was a waif out of the gutter. I don't believe any one knew her
real name--I don't believe she had one."
"She must have had a mother and father."
"Am I to devote my life to hunting for them through the slums of
California? And how shall I know when I have found them? It's impossible to
make you understand. I did wrong--I did horribly wrong--but that is not the
way to repair it."
