WAINEWRIGHT AT HOBART TOWN
His love of art, however, never deserted him.  At Hobart Town he started
a studio, and returned to sketching and portrait-painting, and his
conversation and manners seem not to have lost their charm.  Nor did he
give up his habit of poisoning, and there are two cases on record in
which he tried to make away with people who had offended him.  But his
hand seems to have lost its cunning.  Both of his attempts were complete
failures, and in 1844, being thoroughly dissatisfied with Tasmanian
society, he presented a memorial to the governor of the settlement, Sir
John Eardley Wilmot, praying for a ticket-of-leave.  In it he speaks of
himself as being 'tormented by ideas struggling for outward form and
realisation, barred up from increase of knowledge, and deprived of the
exercise of profitable or even of decorous speech.'  His request,
however, was refused, and the associate of Coleridge consoled himself by
making those marvellous _Paradis Artificiels_ whose secret is only known
to the eaters of opium.  In 1852 he died of apoplexy, his sole living
companion being a cat, for which he had evinced at extraordinary
affection.
His crimes seem to have had an important effect upon his art.  They gave
a strong personality to his style, a quality that his early work
certainly lacked.  In a note to the _Life of Dickens_, Forster mentions
that in 1847 Lady Blessington received from her brother, Major Power, who
held a military appointment at Hobart Town, an oil portrait of a young
lady from his clever brush; and it is said that 'he had contrived to put
the expression of his own wickedness into the portrait of a nice, kind-
hearted girl.'  M. Zola, in one of his novels, tells us of a young man
who, having committed a murder, takes to art, and paints greenish
impressionist portraits of perfectly respectable people, all of which
bear a curious resemblance to his victim.  The development of Mr.
Wainewright's style seems to me far more subtle and suggestive.  One can
fancy an intense personality being created out of sin.--_Pen, Pencil and
Poison_.
CARDINAL NEWMAN AND THE AUTOBIOGRAPHERS
In literature mere egotism is delightful.  It is what fascinates us in
the letters of personalities so different as Cicero and Balzac, Flaubert
and Berlioz, Byron and Madame de Sevigne.  Whenever we come across it,
and, strangely enough, it is rather rare, we cannot but welcome it, and
do not easily forget it.  Humanity will always love Rousseau for having
confessed his sins, not to a priest, but to the world, and the couchant
nymphs that Cellini wrought in bronze for the castle of King Francis, the
green and gold Perseus, even, that in the open Loggia at Florence shows
the moon the dead terror that once turned life to stone, have not given
it more pleasure than has that autobiography in which the supreme
scoundrel of the Renaissance relates the story of his splendour and his
shame.  The opinions, the character, the achievements of the man, matter
very little.  He may be a sceptic like the gentle Sieur de Montaigne, or
a saint like the bitter son of Monica, but when he tells us his own
secrets he can always charm our ears to listening and our lips to
silence.  The mode of thought that Cardinal Newman represented--if that
can be called a mode of thought which seeks to solve intellectual
problems by a denial of the supremacy of the intellect--may not, cannot,
I think, survive.  But the world will never weary of watching that
troubled soul in its progress from darkness to darkness.  The lonely
church at Littlemore, where 'the breath of the morning is damp, and
worshippers are few,' will always be dear to it, and whenever men see the
yellow snapdragon blossoming on the wall of Trinity they will think of
that gracious undergraduate who saw in the flower's sure recurrence a
prophecy that he would abide for ever with the Benign Mother of his
days--a prophecy that Faith, in her wisdom or her folly, suffered not to
be fulfilled.  Yes; autobiography is irresistible.--_The Critic as
Artist_.
