(B) This is the heart of Venice, and is one of the most imposing
architectural objects in Europe. Three of the sides are occupied by
ranges of lofty buildings, which are connected by a succession of
covered walk; or arcades. The church of St Mark, founded in the year
828, closes up the square on the east. The lofty Campanile, or
Bell-tower, over 300 feet in height, was begun A.D. 902, and finished in
1155.
In the reign of Justiniani Participazio, A.D. 827, the son and
Successor of Angelo, undistinguished by events of more important
character, the Venetians became possessed of the relics of that saint to
whom they ever afterwards appealed as the great patron of their state
and city. These remains were obtained from Alexandria by a pious
stratagem, at a time when the church wherein they were originally
deposited was about to be destroyed, in order that its rich marbles
might be applied to the decoration of a palace. At that fortunate
season, some Venetian ships (it is said no less than ten, a fact proving
the prosperous extent of their early commerce) happened to be trading in
that port; and their captains, though not without much difficulty,
succeeded in obtaining from the priests, who had the custody of the holy
treasure, its deliverance into their hands, in order that it might
escape profanation. It was necessary, however, that this transfer should
be made in secrecy; for we are assured by Sabellico, who relates the
occurrence minutely, that the miracles which had been daily wrought at
the saint's shrine had strongly attached the populace to his memory. The
priests carefully opened the cerements in which the body was enveloped;
and considering, doubtless, that one dead saint possessed no less
intrinsic virtue and value than another, they very adroitly substituted
the corpse of a female, Sta. Claudia, in the folds which had been
occupied by that of St. Mark. But they had widely erred in their
graduation of the scale of beatitude. So great was the odour of superior
sanctity, that a rich perfume diffused itself through the church at the
moment at which the grave-clothes of the evangelist were disturbed; and
the holy robbery was well nigh betrayed to the eager crowd of
worshippers, who, attracted by the sweet smell, thronged to inspect the
relics, and to ascertain their safety. After examination, they retired,
satisfied that their favourite saint was inviolate; for the slit which
the priests had made in his cerements was behind and out of sight. But
the Venetians still had to protect the embarkation of their prize. For
this purpose, effectually to prevent all chance of search, they placed
the body in a large basket stuffed with herbs and covered with joints of
pork. The porters who bore it were instructed to cry loudly '_Khanzri
Khanzir!_[43] and every true Mussulman whom they met, carefully avoided
the uncleanness with which he was threatened by contact with this
forbidden flesh. Even when once on board, the body was not yet quite
safe; for accident might reveal the contents of the basket; it was
therefore wrapt in one of the sails, and hoisted to a yard-arm of the
main-mast, till the moment of departure. Nor was this precaution
unnecessary; for the unbelievers instituted a strict search for
contraband goods before the vessel sailed. During the voyage, the ship
was in danger from a violent storm; and but for the timely appearance of
the saint, who warned the captain to furl his sails, she would
inevitably have been lost. The joy of the Venetians, on the arrival of
this precious cargo, was manifested by feasting, music, processions, and
prayers. An ancient tradition was called to mind, that St. Mark, in his
travels, had visited Aquileia; and having touched also at the Hundred
Isles, at that time uninhabited, had been informed, in a prophetic
vision, that his bones should one day repose upon their shores. Venice
was solemnly consigned to his protection. The saint himself, or his
lion, was blazoned on her standards and impressed on her coinage; and
the shout of the populace, whether on occasions of sedition or of joy,
and the gathering cry of the armies of the republic in battle was,
henceforward, '_Viva San Marco!'--Sketches of Venetian History_.
