    MIR.                   Would I might
    But ever see that man!
    PROS.                  Now I arise:
                                                 [_Resumes his mantle._
    Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.
    Here in this island we arrived; and here
    Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
    Than other princesses can, that have more time
    For vainer hours, and tutors not so careful.
    MIR. Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you, sir,
    For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason
    For raising this sea-storm?
    PROS.                  Know thus far forth.
    By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
    Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
    Brought to this shore; and by my prescience
    I find my zenith doth depend upon
    A most auspicious star, whose influence
    If now I court not but omit, my fortunes
    Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions:
    Thou art inclined to sleep; 'tis a good dulness,
    And give it way: I know thou canst not choose.
                                                     [MIRANDA _sleeps_.
    Come away, servant, come. I am ready now.
    Approach, my Ariel, come.
_Enter_ ARIEL.
    ARI. All hail, great master! grave sir, hail! I come
    To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
    To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
    On the curl'd clouds, to thy strong bidding task
    Ariel and all his quality.
    PROS.                  Hast thou, spirit,
    Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
    ARI. To every article.
    I boarded the king's ship; now on the beak,
    Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
    I flamed amazement: sometime I'ld divide,
    And burn in many places; on the topmast,
    The yards and bowsprit, would I flame distinctly,
    Then meet and join. Jove's lightnings, the precursors
    O' the dreadful thunder-claps, more momentary
    And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
    Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune
    Seem to besiege, and make his bold waves tremble,
    Yea, his dread trident shake.
    PROS.                  My brave spirit!
    Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil
    Would not infect his reason?
    ARI.                   Not a soul
    But felt a fever of the mad, and play'd
    Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
    Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel,
    Then all afire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand,
    With hair up-staring,--then like reeds, not hair,--
    Was the first man that leap'd; cried, 'Hell is empty,
    And all the devils are here.'
    PROS.                  Why, that's my spirit!
    But was not this nigh shore?
    ARI.                   Close by, my master.
    PROS. But are they, Ariel, safe?
    ARI.                   Not a hair perish'd;
    On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
    But fresher than before: and, as thou badest me,
    In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
    The king's son have I landed by himself;
    Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
    In an odd angle of the isle, and sitting,
    His arms in this sad knot.
    PROS.                  Of the king's ship
    The mariners say how thou hast disposed
    And all the rest o' the fleet.
    ARI.                   Safely in harbour
    Is the king's ship; in the deep nook, where once
    Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
    From the still-vex'd Bermoothes, there she's hid:
    The mariners all under hatches stow'd;
    Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour,
    I have left asleep: and for the rest o' the fleet
    Which I dispersed, they all have met again
    And are upon the Mediterranean flote,
    Bound sadly home for Naples,
    Supposing that they saw the king's ship wreck'd,
    And his great person perish.
