   Seb. No marrying 'mong his subiects?
  Ant. None (man) all idle; Whores and knaues,
  Gon. I would with such perfection gouerne Sir:
T' Excell the Golden Age
   Seb. 'Saue his Maiesty
   Ant. Long liue Gonzalo
   Gon. And do you marke me, Sir?
  Alon. Pre-thee no more: thou dost talke nothing to me
   Gon. I do well beleeue your Highnesse, and did it
to minister occasion to these Gentlemen, who are of
such sensible and nimble Lungs, that they alwayes vse
to laugh at nothing
   Ant. 'Twas you we laugh'd at
   Gon. Who, in this kind of merry fooling am nothing
to you: so you may continue, and laugh at nothing still
   Ant. What a blow was there giuen?
  Seb. And it had not falne flat-long
   Gon. You are Gentlemen of braue mettal: you would
lift the Moone out of her spheare, if she would continue
in it fiue weekes without changing.
Enter Ariell playing solemne Musicke.
  Seb. We would so, and then go a Bat-fowling
   Ant. Nay good my Lord, be not angry
   Gon. No I warrant you, I will not aduenture my
discretion so weakly: Will you laugh me asleepe, for I
am very heauy
   Ant. Go sleepe, and heare vs
   Alon. What, all so soone asleepe? I wish mine eyes
Would (with themselues) shut vp my thoughts,
I finde they are inclin'd to do so
   Seb. Please you Sir,
Do not omit the heauy offer of it:
It sildome visits sorrow, when it doth, it is a Comforter
   Ant. We two my Lord, will guard your person,
While you take your rest, and watch your safety
   Alon. Thanke you: Wondrous heauy
   Seb. What a strange drowsines possesses them?
  Ant. It is the quality o'th' Clymate
   Seb. Why
Doth it not then our eye-lids sinke? I finde
Not my selfe dispos'd to sleep
   Ant. Nor I, my spirits are nimble:
They fell together all, as by consent
They dropt, as by a Thunder-stroke: what might
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might? no more:
And yet, me thinkes I see it in thy face,
What thou should'st be: th' occasion speaks thee, and
My strong imagination see's a Crowne
Dropping vpon thy head
   Seb. What? art thou waking?
  Ant. Do you not heare me speake?
  Seb. I do, and surely
It is a sleepy Language; and thou speak'st
Out of thy sleepe: What is it thou didst say?
This is a strange repose, to be asleepe
With eyes wide open: standing, speaking, mouing:
And yet so fast asleepe
   Ant. Noble Sebastian,
Thou let'st thy fortune sleepe: die rather: wink'st
Whiles thou art waking
   Seb. Thou do'st snore distinctly,
There's meaning in thy snores
   Ant. I am more serious then my custome: you
Must be so too, if heed me: which to do,
Trebbles thee o're
   Seb. Well: I am standing water
   Ant. Ile teach you how to flow
   Seb. Do so: to ebbe
Hereditary Sloth instructs me
   Ant. O!
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish
Whiles thus you mocke it: how in stripping it
You more inuest it: ebbing men, indeed
(Most often) do so neere the bottome run
By their owne feare, or sloth
