ANT. 'Twas you we laughed at.
GON. Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing to you: so you may
continue and laugh at nothing still.
ANT. What a blow was there given!
SEB. An it had not fallen flat-long.
GON. You are gentlemen of brave mettle; you would lift the moon out of
her sphere, if she would continue in it five weeks without changing.
    _Enter_ ARIEL, _invisible, playing solemn music_.
SEB. We would so, and then go a bat-fowling.
ANT. Nay, good my lord, be not angry. GON. No, I warrant you; I will
not adventure my discretion so weakly. Will you laugh me asleep, for I
am very heavy?
ANT. Go sleep, and hear us.
                  [_All sleep except_ ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, _and_ ANTONIO.
    ALON. What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
    Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: I find
    They are inclined to do so.
    SEB.                   Please you, sir,
    Do not omit the heavy offer of it:
    It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth,
    It is a comforter.
    ANT.                   We too, my lord,
    Will guard your person while you take your rest,
    And watch your safety.
    ALON.                  Thank you. Wondrous heavy.
                                          [ALONSO _sleeps. Exit_ ARIEL.
SEB. What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
ANT. It is the quality o' the climate.
    SEB.                   Why
    Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
    Myself disposed to sleep.
    ANT.                   Nor I; my spirits are nimble,
    They fell together all, as by consent;
    They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
    Worthy Sebastian?--O, what might?--No more:--
    And yet methinks I see it in thy face,
    What thou shouldst be: the occasion speaks thee, and
    My strong imagination sees a crown
    Dropping upon thy head.
SEB. What, art thou waking?
ANT. Do you not hear me speak?
    SEB.                   I do; and surely
    It is a sleepy language and thou speak'st
    Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say?
    This is a strange repose, to be asleep
    With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
    And yet so fast asleep.
    ANT.                   Noble Sebastian,
    Thou let'st thy fortune sleep--die, rather; wink'st
    Whiles thou art waking.
    SEB.                   Thou dost snore distinctly;
    There's meaning in thy snores.
    ANT. I am more serious than my custom: you
    Must be so too, if heed me; which to do
    Trebles thee o'er.
    SEB.                   Well, I am standing water.
ANT. I'll teach you how to flow.
    SEB.                   Do so: to ebb
    Hereditary sloth instructs me.
    ANT.                   O,
    If you but knew how you the purpose cherish
    Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it,
    You more invest it! Ebbing men, indeed,
    Most often do so near the bottom run
    By their own fear or sloth.
    SEB.                   Prithee, say on:
    The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim
    A matter from thee, and a birth indeed
    Which throes thee much to yield.
    ANT.                   Thus, sir:
    Although this lord of weak remembrance, this,
    Who shall be of as little memory
    When he is earth'd, hath here almost persuaded--
    For he's a spirit of persuasion, only
    Professes to persuade--the king his son's alive,
    'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd
    As he that sleeps here swims.
