    MIR.                   Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
    PROS. To have no screen between this part he play'd
    And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
    Absolute Milan. Me, poor man, my library
    Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties
    He thinks me now incapable; confederates--
    So dry he was for sway--wi' the King of Naples
    To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
    Subject his coronet to his crown and bend
    The dukedom yet unbow'd--alas, poor Milan!--
    To most ignoble stooping.
[Illustration:
    PROSPERO:   '_What seest thou else
      In the dark backward abysm of time?_' (page 13).]
MIR. O the heavens!
    PROS. Mark his condition and the event; then tell me
    If this might be a brother.
    MIR.                   I should sin
    To think but nobly of my grandmother:
    Good wombs have borne bad sons.
    PROS.                  Now the condition.
    This King of Naples, being an enemy
    To me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit;
    Which was, that he, in lieu o' the premises
    Of homage and I know not how much tribute,
    Should presently extirpate me and mine
    Out of the dukedom, and confer fair Milan
    With all the honours on my brother: whereon,
    A treacherous army levied, one midnight
    Fated to the purpose did Antonio open
    The gates of Milan; and, i' the dead of darkness,
    The ministers for the purpose hurried thence
    Me and thy crying self.
    MIR.                   Alack, for pity!
    I, not remembering how I cried out then,
    Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint
    That wrings mine eyes to't.
    PROS.                  Hear a little further
    And then I'll bring thee to the present business
    Which now's upon's; without the which this story
    Were most impertinent.
    MIR.                   Wherefore did they not
    That hour destroy us?
    PROS.                  Well demanded, wench:
    My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
    So dear the love my people bore me, nor set
    A mark so bloody on the business, but
    With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
    In few, they hurried us aboard a bark,
    Bore us some leagues to sea: where they prepared
    A rotten carcass of a butt, not rigg'd,
    Nor tackle, sail, nor mast; the very rats
    Instinctively have quit it: there they hoist us,
    To cry to the sea that roar'd to us, to sigh
    To the winds whose pity, sighing back again,
    Did us but loving wrong.
    MIR.                   Alack, what trouble
    Was I then to you!
    PROS.                  O, a cherubin
    Thou wast that did preserve me. Thou didst smile,
    Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
    When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt,
    Under my burthen groan'd; which rais'd in me
    An undergoing stomach, to bear up
    Against what should ensue.
    MIR.                   How came we ashore?
    PROS. By Providence divine.
    Some food we had and some fresh water that
    A noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo,
    Out of his charity, who being then appointed
    Master of this design, did give us, with
    Rich garments, linens, stuffs and necessaries,
    Which since have steaded much; so, of his gentleness,
    Knowing I loved my books, he furnish'd me
    From mine own library with volumes that
    I prize above my dukedom.
