This was how it was that Stepan Nikiforovitch felt such pleasure in his
placid heart that he actually invited two friends to see him on his
birthday, which he had hitherto carefully concealed from his most intimate
acquaintances. He had special designs on one of these visitors. He lived in
the upper storey of his new house, and he wanted a tenant for the lower
half, which was built and arranged in exactly the same way. Stepan
Nikiforovitch was reckoning upon Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko, and had
twice that evening broached the subject in the course of conversation. But
Semyon Ivanovitch made no response. The latter, too, was a man who had
doggedly made a way for himself in the course of long years. He had black
hair and whiskers, and a face that always had a shade of jaundice. He was a
married man of morose disposition who liked to stay at home; he ruled his
household with a rod of iron; in his official duties he had the greatest
self-confidence. He, too, knew perfectly well what goal he was making for,
and better still, what he never would reach. He was in a good position, and
he was sitting tight there. Though he looked upon the new reforms with a
certain distaste, he was not particularly agitated about them: he was
extremely self-confident, and listened with a shade of ironical malice to
Ivan Ilyitch Pralinsky expatiating on new themes. All of them had been
drinking rather freely, however, so that Stepan Nikiforovitch himself
condescended to take part in a slight discussion with Mr. Pralinsky
concerning the latest reforms. But we must say a few words about his
Excellency, Mr. Pralinsky, especially as he is the chief hero of the
present story.
The actual civil councillor Ivan Ilyitch Pralinsky had only been "his
Excellency" for four months; in short, he was a young general. He was young
in years, too--only forty-three, no more--and he looked and liked to look
even younger. He was a tall, handsome man, he was smart in his dress, and
prided himself on its solid, dignified character; with great aplomb he
displayed an order of some consequence on his breast. From his earliest
childhood he had known how to acquire the airs and graces of aristocratic
society, and being a bachelor, dreamed of a wealthy and even aristocratic
bride. He dreamed of many other things, though he was far from being
stupid. At times he was a great talker, and even liked to assume a
parliamentary pose. He came of a good family. He was the son of a general,
and brought up in the lap of luxury; in his tender childhood he had been
dressed in velvet and fine linen, had been educated at an aristocratic
school, and though he acquired very little learning there he was successful
in the service, and had worked his way up to being a general. The
authorities looked upon him as a capable man, and even expected great
things from him in the future. Stepan Nikiforovitch, under whom Ivan
Ilyitch had begun his career in the service, and under whom he had remained
until he was made a general, had never considered him a good business man
and had no expectations of him whatever. What he liked in him was that he
belonged to a good family, had property--that is, a big block of buildings,
let out in flats, in charge of an overseer--was connected with persons of
consequence, and what was more, had a majestic bearing. Stepan
Nikiforovitch blamed him inwardly for excess of imagination and
instability. Ivan Ilyitch himself felt at times that he had too much
_amour-propre_ and even sensitiveness. Strange to say, he had attacks from
time to time of morbid tenderness of conscience and even a kind of faint
remorse. With bitterness and a secret soreness of heart he recognised now
and again that he did not fly so high as he imagined. At such moments he
sank into despondency, especially when he was suffering from haemorrhoids,
called his life _une existence manquee_, and ceased--privately, of
course--to believe even in his parliamentary capacities, calling himself a
talker, a maker of phrases; and though all that, of course, did him great
credit, it did not in the least prevent him from raising his head again
half an hour later, and growing even more obstinately, even more
conceitedly self-confident, and assuring himself that he would yet succeed
in making his mark, and that he would be not only a great official, but a
statesman whom Russia would long remember. He actually dreamed at times of
monuments. From this it will be seen that Ivan Ilyitch aimed high, though
he hid his vague hopes and dreams deep in his heart, even with a certain
trepidation. In short, he was a good-natured man and a poet at heart. Of
late years these morbid moments of disillusionment had begun to be more
frequent. He had become peculiarly irritable, ready to take offence, and
was apt to take any contradiction as an affront. But reformed Russia gave
him great hopes. His promotion to general was the finishing touch. He was
roused; he held his head up. He suddenly began talking freely and
eloquently. He talked about the new ideas, which he very quickly and
unexpectedly made his own and professed with vehemence. He sought
opportunities for speaking, drove about the town, and in many places
succeeded in gaining the reputation of a desperate Liberal, which flattered
him greatly. That evening, after drinking four glasses, he was particularly
exuberant. He wanted on every point to confute Stepan Nikiforovitch, whom
he had not seen for some time past, and whom he had hitherto always
respected and even obeyed. He considered him for some reason reactionary,
and fell upon him with exceptional heat. Stepan Nikiforovitch hardly
answered him, but only listened slyly, though the subject interested him.
Ivan Ilyitch got hot, and in the heat of the discussion sipped his glass
more often than he ought to have done. Then Stepan Nikiforovitch took the
bottle and at once filled his glass again, which for some reason seemed to
offend Ivan Ilyitch, especially as Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko, whom he
particularly despised and indeed feared on account of his cynicism and
ill-nature, preserved a treacherous silence and smiled more frequently than
was necessary. "They seem to take me for a schoolboy," flashed across Ivan
Ilyitch's mind.
