He recalled it, and grew more and more pensive. It is well known that whole
trains of thought sometimes pass through our brains instantaneously as
though they were sensations without being translated into human speech,
still less into literary language. But we will try to translate these
sensations of our hero's, and present to the reader at least the kernel of
them, so to say, what was most essential and nearest to reality in them.
For many of our sensations when translated into ordinary language seem
absolutely unreal. That is why they never find expression, though every one
has them. Of course Ivan Ilyitch's sensations and thoughts were a little
incoherent. But you know the reason.
"Why," flashed through his mind, "here we all talk and talk, but when it
comes to action--it all ends in nothing. Here, for instance, take this
Pseldonimov: he has just come from his wedding full of hope and excitement,
looking forward to his wedding feast.... This is one of the most blissful
days of his life.... Now he is busy with his guests, is giving a banquet, a
modest one, poor, but gay and full of genuine gladness.... What if he knew
that at this very moment I, I, his superior, his chief, am standing by his
house listening to the music? Yes, really how would he feel? No, what would
he feel if I suddenly walked in? H'm!... Of course at first he would be
frightened, he would be dumb with embarrassment.... I should be in his way,
and perhaps should upset everything. Yes, that would be so if any other
general went in, but not I.... That's a fact, any one else, but not I....
"Yes, Stepan Nikiforovitch! You did not understand me just now, but here is
an example ready for you.
"Yes, we all make an outcry about acting humanely, but we are not capable
of heroism, of fine actions.
"What sort of heroism? This sort. Consider: in the existing relations of
the various members of society, for me, for me, after midnight to go in to
the wedding of my subordinate, a registration clerk, at ten roubles the
month--why, it would mean embarrassment, a revolution, the last days of
Pompeii, a nonsensical folly. No one would understand it. Stepan
Nikiforovitch would die before he understood it. Why, he said we should
break down. Yes, but that's you old people, inert, paralytic people; but I
shan't break down, I will transform the last day of Pompeii to a day of the
utmost sweetness for my subordinate, and a wild action to an action normal,
patriarchal, lofty and moral. How? Like this. Kindly listen....
"Here ... I go in, suppose; they are amazed, leave off dancing, look wildly
at me, draw back. Quite so, but at once I speak out: I go straight up to
the frightened Pseldonimov, and with a most cordial, affable smile, in the
simplest words, I say: 'This is how it is, I have been at his Excellency
Stepan Nikiforovitch's. I expect you know, close here in the
neighbourhood....' Well, then, lightly, in a laughing way, I shall tell him
of my adventure with Trifon. From Trifon I shall pass on to saying how I
walked here on foot.... 'Well, I heard music, I inquired of a policeman,
and learned, brother, that it was your wedding. Let me go in, I thought, to
my subordinate's; let me see how my clerks enjoy themselves and ...
celebrate their wedding. I suppose you won't turn me out?' Turn me out!
What a word for a subordinate! How the devil could he dream of turning me
out! I fancy that he would be half crazy, that he would rush headlong to
seat me in an arm-chair, would be trembling with delight, would hardly know
what he was doing for the first minute!
