Still, there was one position worse than the present: it was the
position he would be in when the ugly secret was disclosed; and the
desire that continually triumphed over every other was that of warding
off the evil day, when he would have to bear the consequences of his
father's violent resentment for the wound inflicted on his family
pride--would have, perhaps, to turn his back on that hereditary ease
and dignity which, after all, was a sort of reason for living, and
would carry with him the certainty that he was banished for ever from
the sight and esteem of Nancy Lammeter.  The longer the interval, the
more chance there was of deliverance from some, at least, of the
hateful consequences to which he had sold himself; the more
opportunities remained for him to snatch the strange gratification of
seeing Nancy, and gathering some faint indications of her lingering
regard.  Towards this gratification he was impelled, fitfully, every
now and then, after having passed weeks in which he had avoided her as
the far-off bright-winged prize that only made him spring forward and
find his chain all the more galling.  One of those fits of yearning was
on him now, and it would have been strong enough to have persuaded him
to trust Wildfire to Dunstan rather than disappoint the yearning, even
if he had not had another reason for his disinclination towards the
morrow's hunt.  That other reason was the fact that the morning's meet
was near Batherley, the market-town where the unhappy woman lived,
whose image became more odious to him every day; and to his thought the
whole vicinage was haunted by her.  The yoke a man creates for himself
by wrong-doing will breed hate in the kindliest nature; and the
good-humoured, affectionate-hearted Godfrey Cass was fast becoming a
bitter man, visited by cruel wishes, that seemed to enter, and depart,
and enter again, like demons who had found in him a ready-garnished
home.
What was he to do this evening to pass the time?  He might as well go
to the Rainbow, and hear the talk about the cock-fighting: everybody
was there, and what else was there to be done?  Though, for his own
part, he did not care a button for cock-fighting. Snuff, the brown
spaniel, who had placed herself in front of him, and had been watching
him for some time, now jumped up in impatience for the expected caress.
But Godfrey thrust her away without looking at her, and left the room,
followed humbly by the unresenting Snuff--perhaps because she saw no
other career open to her.
CHAPTER IV
Dunstan Cass, setting off in the raw morning, at the judiciously quiet
pace of a man who is obliged to ride to cover on his hunter, had to
take his way along the lane which, at its farther extremity, passed by
the piece of unenclosed ground called the Stone-pit, where stood the
cottage, once a stone-cutter's shed, now for fifteen years inhabited by
Silas Marner.  The spot looked very dreary at this season, with the
moist trodden clay about it, and the red, muddy water high up in the
deserted quarry.  That was Dunstan's first thought as he approached it;
the second was, that the old fool of a weaver, whose loom he heard
rattling already, had a great deal of money hidden somewhere.  How was
it that he, Dunstan Cass, who had often heard talk of Marner's
miserliness, had never thought of suggesting to Godfrey that he should
frighten or persuade the old fellow into lending the money on the
excellent security of the young Squire's prospects?  The resource
occurred to him now as so easy and agreeable, especially as Marner's
hoard was likely to be large enough to leave Godfrey a handsome surplus
beyond his immediate needs, and enable him to accommodate his faithful
brother, that he had almost turned the horse's head towards home again.
Godfrey would be ready enough to accept the suggestion: he would snatch
eagerly at a plan that might save him from parting with Wildfire. But
when Dunstan's meditation reached this point, the inclination to go on
grew strong and prevailed.  He didn't want to give Godfrey that
pleasure: he preferred that Master Godfrey should be vexed. Moreover,
Dunstan enjoyed the self-important consciousness of having a horse to
sell, and the opportunity of driving a bargain, swaggering, and
possibly taking somebody in.  He might have all the satisfaction
attendant on selling his brother's horse, and not the less have the
further satisfaction of setting Godfrey to borrow Marner's money.  So
he rode on to cover.
