"Confound you, hold your tongue!"  said Godfrey, impetuously. "And take
care to keep sober to-morrow, else you'll get pitched on your head
coming home, and Wildfire might be the worse for it."
"Make your tender heart easy," said Dunstan, opening the door. "You
never knew me see double when I'd got a bargain to make; it 'ud spoil
the fun.  Besides, whenever I fall, I'm warranted to fall on my legs."
With that, Dunstan slammed the door behind him, and left Godfrey to
that bitter rumination on his personal circumstances which was now
unbroken from day to day save by the excitement of sporting, drinking,
card-playing, or the rarer and less oblivious pleasure of seeing Miss
Nancy Lammeter.  The subtle and varied pains springing from the higher
sensibility that accompanies higher culture, are perhaps less pitiable
than that dreary absence of impersonal enjoyment and consolation which
leaves ruder minds to the perpetual urgent companionship of their own
griefs and discontents.  The lives of those rural forefathers, whom we
are apt to think very prosaic figures--men whose only work was to ride
round their land, getting heavier and heavier in their saddles, and who
passed the rest of their days in the half-listless gratification of
senses dulled by monotony--had a certain pathos in them nevertheless.
Calamities came to _them_ too, and their early errors carried hard
consequences: perhaps the love of some sweet maiden, the image of
purity, order, and calm, had opened their eyes to the vision of a life
in which the days would not seem too long, even without rioting; but
the maiden was lost, and the vision passed away, and then what was left
to them, especially when they had become too heavy for the hunt, or for
carrying a gun over the furrows, but to drink and get merry, or to
drink and get angry, so that they might be independent of variety, and
say over again with eager emphasis the things they had said already any
time that twelvemonth? Assuredly, among these flushed and dull-eyed men
there were some whom--thanks to their native human-kindness--even riot
could never drive into brutality; men who, when their cheeks were
fresh, had felt the keen point of sorrow or remorse, had been pierced
by the reeds they leaned on, or had lightly put their limbs in fetters
from which no struggle could loose them; and under these sad
circumstances, common to us all, their thoughts could find no
resting-place outside the ever-trodden round of their own petty history.
That, at least, was the condition of Godfrey Cass in this
six-and-twentieth year of his life.  A movement of compunction, helped
by those small indefinable influences which every personal relation
exerts on a pliant nature, had urged him into a secret marriage, which
was a blight on his life.  It was an ugly story of low passion,
delusion, and waking from delusion, which needs not to be dragged from
the privacy of Godfrey's bitter memory.  He had long known that the
delusion was partly due to a trap laid for him by Dunstan, who saw in
his brother's degrading marriage the means of gratifying at once his
jealous hate and his cupidity.  And if Godfrey could have felt himself
simply a victim, the iron bit that destiny had put into his mouth would
have chafed him less intolerably.  If the curses he muttered half aloud
when he was alone had had no other object than Dunstan's diabolical
cunning, he might have shrunk less from the consequences of avowal.
But he had something else to curse--his own vicious folly, which now
seemed as mad and unaccountable to him as almost all our follies and
vices do when their promptings have long passed away.  For four years
he had thought of Nancy Lammeter, and wooed her with tacit patient
worship, as the woman who made him think of the future with joy: she
would be his wife, and would make home lovely to him, as his father's
home had never been; and it would be easy, when she was always near, to
shake off those foolish habits that were no pleasures, but only a
feverish way of annulling vacancy.  Godfrey's was an essentially
domestic nature, bred up in a home where the hearth had no smiles, and
where the daily habits were not chastised by the presence of household
order.  His easy disposition made him fall in unresistingly with the
family courses, but the need of some tender permanent affection, the
longing for some influence that would make the good he preferred easy
to pursue, caused the neatness, purity, and liberal orderliness of the
Lammeter household, sunned by the smile of Nancy, to seem like those
fresh bright hours of the morning when temptations go to sleep and
leave the ear open to the voice of the good angel, inviting to
industry, sobriety, and peace.  And yet the hope of this paradise had
not been enough to save him from a course which shut him out of it for
ever.  Instead of keeping fast hold of the strong silken rope by which
Nancy would have drawn him safe to the green banks where it was easy to
step firmly, he had let himself be dragged back into mud and slime, in
which it was useless to struggle.  He had made ties for himself which
robbed him of all wholesome motive, and were a constant exasperation.
