"Well; yes--she might," said the butcher, slowly, considering that he
was giving a decided affirmative.  "I don't say contrairy."
"I knew that very well," said the farrier, throwing himself backward
again, and speaking defiantly; "if _I_ don't know Mr. Lammeter's cows,
I should like to know who does--that's all. And as for the cow you've
bought, bargain or no bargain, I've been at the drenching of
her--contradick me who will."
The farrier looked fierce, and the mild butcher's conversational spirit
was roused a little.
"I'm not for contradicking no man," he said; "I'm for peace and
quietness.  Some are for cutting long ribs--I'm for cutting 'em short
myself; but _I_ don't quarrel with 'em.  All I say is, it's a lovely
carkiss--and anybody as was reasonable, it 'ud bring tears into their
eyes to look at it."
"Well, it's the cow as I drenched, whatever it is," pursued the
farrier, angrily; "and it was Mr. Lammeter's cow, else you told a lie
when you said it was a red Durham."
"I tell no lies," said the butcher, with the same mild huskiness as
before, "and I contradick none--not if a man was to swear himself
black: he's no meat o' mine, nor none o' my bargains.  All I say is,
it's a lovely carkiss.  And what I say, I'll stick to; but I'll quarrel
wi' no man."
"No," said the farrier, with bitter sarcasm, looking at the company
generally; "and p'rhaps you aren't pig-headed; and p'rhaps you didn't
say the cow was a red Durham; and p'rhaps you didn't say she'd got a
star on her brow--stick to that, now you're at it."
"Come, come," said the landlord; "let the cow alone.  The truth lies
atween you: you're both right and both wrong, as I allays say. And as
for the cow's being Mr. Lammeter's, I say nothing to that; but this I
say, as the Rainbow's the Rainbow.  And for the matter o' that, if the
talk is to be o' the Lammeters, _you_ know the most upo' that head, eh,
Mr. Macey?  You remember when first Mr. Lammeter's father come into
these parts, and took the Warrens?"
Mr. Macey, tailor and parish-clerk, the latter of which functions
rheumatism had of late obliged him to share with a small-featured young
man who sat opposite him, held his white head on one side, and twirled
his thumbs with an air of complacency, slightly seasoned with
criticism.  He smiled pityingly, in answer to the landlord's appeal,
and said--
"Aye, aye; I know, I know; but I let other folks talk.  I've laid by
now, and gev up to the young uns.  Ask them as have been to school at
Tarley: they've learnt pernouncing; that's come up since my day."
"If you're pointing at me, Mr. Macey," said the deputy clerk, with an
air of anxious propriety, "I'm nowise a man to speak out of my place.
As the psalm says--
  "I know what's right, nor only so,
  But also practise what I know."
