"Now, Pris, that's just lovely of you, and I know it will work wonders.
Smile and nod away, dear, and try to do your part, as I'm trying to do
mine."
For an instant the little gray hat and the jaunty one with the scarlet
feather were bent close together; but what went on under the brims, who
can say? Then Polly trotted off as fast as she could go, and Pris turned
into a certain street with a quicker step and a brighter color than she
had known for weeks.
She was late, for she had lingered with Polly, and she feared that
patient watcher at the window would be gone. No; the brown head was
there, but it lay wearily on the arms folded over a big book, and the
eyes that stared out at the wintry sky had something tragic in them.
Poor Phil did need encouragement, and was in the mood to take the worst
sort if the best failed him, for life looked very dark just then, and
solitude was growing unbearable.
Suddenly, between him and the ruddy sunset a face appeared,--the dearest
and the loveliest in the world to him. Not half averted now, nor set
straightforward, cold and quiet as a marble countenance, but bent
towards him, with a smile on the lips, and a wistful look in the tender
eyes that made his heart leap up with sudden hope. Then it vanished; and
when he sprung to the window nothing could be seen but the last wave of
a well-known cloak, fluttering round the corner.
But Priscilla's first effort was a great success; for the magic of a
kind look glorified the dingy office, and every bottle on the shelves
might have been filled with the elixir of life, so radiant did Phil's
face become. The almost uncontrollable desire to rush away and
recklessly forget his loneliness in the first companionship that offered
was gone now, for a happy hope peopled his solitude with helpful
thoughts and resolutions; the tragic look left the eyes, that still saw
a good angel instead of a tempting demon between them and the evening
sky; and when Phil shut up the big book he had been vainly trying to
study, he felt that he had discovered a new cure for one of the sharpest
pains the heart can suffer.
Next morning Pris unconsciously started for school too soon, so when she
passed that window the room was empty. Resolved that Phil should not
share her disappointment, she lifted the sash and dropped a white azalea
on his desk. She smiled as she did it, and then whisked away as if she
had taken instead of left a treasure. But the smile remained with the
flower, I think, and Phil found it there when he hurried in to discover
this sweet good-morning waiting for him.
He put it in the wine-glass which he had sworn never should be filled
again with any thing but water, and sitting down before it listened to
the little sermon the flower preached; for the delicate white azalea was
Pris to him, and the eloquence of a pure and tender heart flowed from
it, working miracles. One of them was that when sunset came it shone on
two faces at the window, and the little snow-birds heard two voices
breaking a long silence.
