"My daughter, I am not too proud to own a fault, nor, please God, too
old to mend it."
CHAPTER IV.
_WHAT POLLY DID._
Since their mother's death, Polly had tried to fill her place, and take
good care of the boys. But the poor little damsel had a hard time of it
sometimes; for Ned, being a year or two older, thought it his duty to
emancipate himself from petticoat government as rapidly as possible, and
do as he pleased, regardless of her warnings or advice.
Yet at heart he was very fond of his pretty sister. At times he felt
strongly tempted to confide his troubles and perplexities to her, for
since the loss of his mother he often longed for a tender, helpful
creature to cheer and strengthen him.
Unfortunately he had reached the age when boys consider it "the thing"
to repress every sign of regard for their own women-folk, sisters
especially; so Ned barricaded himself behind the manly superiority of
his twenty years, and snubbed Polly.
Will had not yet developed this unpleasant trait, but his sister
expected it, and often exclaimed, despairingly, to her bosom friends,--
"When _he_ follows Ned's example, and begins to rampage, what _will_
become of me?"
The father--a learned and busy man--was so occupied by the duties of his
large parish, or so absorbed in the abstruse studies to which his brief
leisure was devoted, that he had no time left for his children. Polly
took good care of him and the house, and the boys seemed to be doing
well, so he went his way in peace, quite unconscious that his eldest son
needed all a father's care to keep him from the temptations to which a
social nature, not evil propensities, exposed him.
Polly saw the danger, and spoke of it; but Mr. Snow only answered
absently,--
"Tut, tut, my dear; you are over-anxious, and forget that young men all
have a few wild oats to sow."
While Ned silenced her with that other familiar and harmful phrase, "I'm
only seeing life a bit, so don't you fret, child," little dreaming that
such "seeing life" too often ends in seeing death.
So Polly labored in vain, till something happened which taught them all
a lesson. Ned went on a sleighing frolic with the comrades whom of all
others his sister dreaded most.
"Do be careful and not come home as you did last time, for father will
be in, and it would shock him dreadfully if I shouldn't be able to keep
you quiet," she said anxiously.
"You little granny, I wasn't tipsy, only cheerful, and that scared you
out of your wits. I've got my key, so don't sit up. I hate to have a
woman glowering at me when I come in," was Ned's ungracious reply; for
the memory of that occasion was not a pleasant one.
"If a woman had not been sitting up, you'd have frozen on the door-mat,
you ungrateful boy," cried Polly, angrily.
