"What shall we do about it, love?" asked Clara, enjoying her friend's
tirade.
"_You_ will submit to it, and get a mental dyspepsia, like all the other
fashionable girls. I won't submit, if I can help it; even if I shock
Mrs. Grundy by my efforts to get plain bread and beef instead of
confectionery."
Anna walked in silence for a moment, and then burst out again, more
energetically than ever.
"Oh! I do wish I could find one sensible man, who would treat me as he
treats his male friends,--even roughly, if he is honest and true; who
would think me worthy of his confidence, ask my advice, let me give him
whatever I have that is wise and excellent, and be my friend in all good
faith."
"Ahem!" said Clara, with a significant laugh, that angered Anna.
"You need not try to abash me with your jeers. I know what I mean, and I
stand by my guns, in spite of your 'hems.' I do _not_ want lovers. I've
had dozens, and am tired of them. I will not marry till I know the man
thoroughly; and how _can_ I know him with this veil between us? They
don't guess what I really am; and I want to prove to them and to myself
that I possess brains and a heart, as well as 'heavenly eyes,' a
'queenly figure,' and a 'mouth made for kissing.'"
The scorn with which Anna uttered the last words amused her friend
immensely, for the petulant beauty had never looked handsomer than at
that moment.
"If any man saw you now, he'd promise whatever you ask, no matter how
absurd. But don't excite yourself, dear child; it is too warm for
heroics."
Anna leaned on the wide baluster a moment, looking thoughtfully out upon
the sea; and as she gazed a new expression stole over her charming face,
changing its disdainful warmth to soft regret.
"This is not all a whim. I know what I covet, because I had it once,"
she said, with a sigh. "I had a boy friend when I was a girl, and for
several years we were like brother and sister. Ah! what happy times we
had together, Frank and I. We played and studied, quarrelled and made
up, dreamed splendid dreams, and loved one another in our simple child
fashion, never thinking of sex, rivalry, or any of the forms and follies
that spoil maturer friendships."
"What became of him? Did he die angelically in his early bloom, or
outgrow his Platonics with round jackets?" asked Clara.
"He went to college. I went abroad, to be 'finished off;' and when we
met a year ago the old charm was all gone, for we were 'in society' and
had our masks on."
"So the boy and girl friendship did not ripen into love and end the
romance properly?"
"No, thank Heaven! no flirtation spoilt the pretty story. Frank was too
wise, and I too busy. Yet I remember how glad I was to see him; though I
hid it properly, and pretended to be quite unconscious that I was any
thing but a belle. I got paid for my deceit, though; for, in spite of
his admiration, I saw he was disappointed in me. I should not have cared
if I had been disappointed in him; but I was quick to see that he was
growing one of the strong, superior men who command respect. I wanted to
keep his regard, at least; and I seemed to have nothing but beauty to
give in return. I think I never was so hurt in my life as I was by his
not coming to see me after a week or two, and hearing him say to a
friend, one night, when I thought I was at my very best, 'She is spoilt,
like all the rest.'"
