"Lend a hand, friend," he said.  "Throw out a life-line or something."
It was a woman's voice that answered, and he recognized it.
"If you'll unbuckle the straps I can get up."
The hundred pounds rolled into the mud with a soggy noise, and he
slowly gained his feet.
"A pretty predicament," Miss Gastell laughed, at sight of his
mud-covered face.
"Not at all," he replied airily.  "My favourite physical exercise
stunt.  Try it some time.  It's great for the pectoral muscles and the
spine."
He wiped his face, flinging the slush from his hand with a snappy jerk.
"Oh!" she cried in recognition.  "It's Mr--ah--Mr Smoke Bellew."
"I thank you gravely for your timely rescue and for that name," he
answered.  "I have been doubly baptized.  Henceforth I shall insist
always on being called Smoke Bellew.  It is a strong name, and not
without significance."
He paused, and then voice and expression became suddenly fierce.
"Do you know what I'm going to do?" he demanded.  "I'm going back to
the States.  I am going to get married.  I am going to raise a large
family of children.  And then, as the evening shadows fall, I shall
gather those children about me and relate the sufferings and hardships
I endured on the Chilcoot Trail.  And if they don't cry--I repeat, if
they don't cry, I'll lambaste the stuffing out of them."
VIII.
The arctic winter came down apace.  Snow that had come to stay lay six
inches on the ground, and the ice was forming in quiet ponds, despite
the fierce gales that blew.  It was in the late afternoon, during a
lull in such a gale, that Kit and John Bellew helped the cousins load
the boat and watched it disappear down the lake in a snow-squall.
"And now a night's sleep and an early start in the morning," said John
Bellew.  "If we aren't storm-bound at the summit we'll make Dyea
to-morrow night, and if we have luck in catching a steamer we'll be in
San Francisco in a week."
"Enjoyed your vacation?" Kit asked absently.
Their camp for that last night at Linderman was a melancholy remnant.
Everything of use, including the tent, had been taken by the cousins.
A tattered tarpaulin, stretched as a wind-break, partially sheltered
them from the driving snow.  Supper they cooked on an open fire in a
couple of battered and discarded camp utensils. All that was left them
were their blankets, and food for several meals.
From the moment of the departure of the boat, Kit had become absent and
restless.  His uncle noticed his condition, and attributed it to the
fact that the end of the hard toil had come.  Only once during supper
did Kit speak.
"Avuncular," he said, relevant of nothing, "after this, I wish you'd
call me Smoke.  I've made some smoke on this trail, haven't I?"
A few minutes later he wandered away in the direction of the village of
tents that sheltered the gold-rushers who were still packing or
building their boats.  He was gone several hours, and when he returned
and slipped into his blankets John Bellew was asleep.
