Sometimes, they came to several avenues at once, and then they all stood
still, and one of the children said, “Father, I am going to sea,” and
another said, “Father, I am going to India,” and another, “Father, I am
going to seek my fortune where I can,” and another, “Father, I am going
to Heaven!”  So, with many tears at parting, they went, solitary, down
those avenues, each child upon its way; and the child who went to Heaven,
rose into the golden air and vanished.
Whenever these partings happened, the traveller looked at the gentleman,
and saw him glance up at the sky above the trees, where the day was
beginning to decline, and the sunset to come on.  He saw, too, that his
hair was turning grey.  But, they never could rest long, for they had
their journey to perform, and it was necessary for them to be always
busy.
At last, there had been so many partings that there were no children
left, and only the traveller, the gentleman, and the lady, went upon
their way in company.  And now the wood was yellow; and now brown; and
the leaves, even of the forest trees, began to fall.
So, they came to an avenue that was darker than the rest, and were
pressing forward on their journey without looking down it when the lady
stopped.
“My husband,” said the lady.  “I am called.”
They listened, and they heard a voice a long way down the avenue, say,
“Mother, mother!”
It was the voice of the first child who had said, “I am going to Heaven!”
and the father said, “I pray not yet.  The sunset is very near.  I pray
not yet!”
But, the voice cried, “Mother, mother!” without minding him, though his
hair was now quite white, and tears were on his face.
Then, the mother, who was already drawn into the shade of the dark avenue
and moving away with her arms still round his neck, kissed him, and said,
“My dearest, I am summoned, and I go!”  And she was gone.  And the
traveller and he were left alone together.
And they went on and on together, until they came to very near the end of
the wood: so near, that they could see the sunset shining red before them
through the trees.
Yet, once more, while he broke his way among the branches, the traveller
lost his friend.  He called and called, but there was no reply, and when
he passed out of the wood, and saw the peaceful sun going down upon a
wide purple prospect, he came to an old man sitting on a fallen tree.
So, he said to the old man, “What do you do here?”  And the old man said
with a calm smile, “I am always remembering.  Come and remember with me!”
So the traveller sat down by the side of that old man, face to face with
the serene sunset; and all his friends came softly back and stood around
him.  The beautiful child, the handsome boy, the young man in love, the
father, mother, and children: every one of them was there, and he had
lost nothing.  So, he loved them all, and was kind and forbearing with
them all, and was always pleased to watch them all, and they all honoured
and loved him.  And I think the traveller must be yourself, dear
Grandfather, because this what you do to us, and what we do to you.
