But it came to pass that the Corporal was not to be dismissed.  If he had
known the most delicate fibres of the Englishman's mind, instead of
knowing nothing on earth about him, and if he had been the most obstinate
Corporal in the Grand Army of France, instead of being the most obliging,
he could not have planted himself with more determined immovability plump
in the midst of all the Englishman's thoughts.  Not only so, but he
seemed to be always in his view.  Mr. The Englishman had but to look out
of window, to look upon the Corporal with little Bebelle.  He had but to
go for a walk, and there was the Corporal walking with Bebelle.  He had
but to come home again, disgusted, and the Corporal and Bebelle were at
home before him.  If he looked out at his back windows early in the
morning, the Corporal was in the Barber's back yard, washing and dressing
and brushing Bebelle.  If he took refuge at his front windows, the
Corporal brought his breakfast out into the Place, and shared it there
with Bebelle.  Always Corporal and always Bebelle.  Never Corporal
without Bebelle.  Never Bebelle without Corporal.
Mr. The Englishman was not particularly strong in the French language as
a means of oral communication, though he read it very well.  It is with
languages as with people,--when you only know them by sight, you are apt
to mistake them; you must be on speaking terms before you can be said to
have established an acquaintance.
For this reason, Mr. The Englishman had to gird up his loins considerably
before he could bring himself to the point of exchanging ideas with
Madame Bouclet on the subject of this Corporal and this Bebelle.  But
Madame Bouclet looking in apologetically one morning to remark, that, O
Heaven! she was in a state of desolation because the lamp-maker had not
sent home that lamp confided to him to repair, but that truly he was a
lamp-maker against whom the whole world shrieked out, Mr. The Englishman
seized the occasion.
"Madame, that baby--"
"Pardon, monsieur.  That lamp."
"No, no, that little girl."
"But, pardon!" said Madame Bonclet, angling for a clew, "one cannot light
a little girl, or send her to be repaired?"
"The little girl--at the house of the barber."
"Ah-h-h!" cried Madame Bouclet, suddenly catching the idea with her
delicate little line and rod.  "Little Bebelle?  Yes, yes, yes!  And her
friend the Corporal?  Yes, yes, yes, yes!  So genteel of him,--is it
not?"
"He is not--?"
"Not at all; not at all!  He is not one of her relations.  Not at all!"
"Why, then, he--"
"Perfectly!" cried Madame Bouclet, "you are right, monsieur.  It is so
genteel of him.  The less relation, the more genteel.  As you say."
"Is she--?"
"The child of the barber?" Madame Bouclet whisked up her skilful little
line and rod again.  "Not at all, not at all!  She is the child of--in a
word, of no one."
