    “As for certain American portraits painted in Martin Chuzzlewit,”
    says an American lady, {24} “I should as soon think of objecting to
    them as I should think of objecting to any other discovery in natural
    history.  To deny the existence of Elijah Pogram, Jefferson Brick,
    Colonel Diver, Mrs. Hominy, and Miss Codger, is to deny facts
    somewhat exaggerated, that are patent to any keen observer who has
    ever travelled through the United States.  The character of Elijah
    Pogram is so well known as to constantly figure in the world of
    illustration; and we can well afford to laugh at foibles of native
    growth when Mr. Dickens devotes the greater part of this same novel
    to the exposition of English vice and selfishness.”
The following letter, referring to Martin Chuzzlewit, which was then in
course of publication, was addressed by Mr. Dickens to a friend in
January, 1844:—
                                                      “Devonshire Terrace,
                                                    “_January_ 2_d_, 1844.
    MY DEAR SIR,
    “THAT is a very horrible case you tell me of.  I would to God I could
    get at the parental heart of —, in which event I would so scarify it,
    that he should writhe again.  But if I were to put such a father as
    he into a book, all the fathers going (and especially the bad ones)
    would hold up their hands and protest against the unnatural
    caricature.  I find that a great many people (particularly those who
    might have sat for the character) consider even Mr. Pecksniff a
    grotesque impossibility, and Mrs. Nickleby herself, sitting bodily
    before me in a solid chair, once asked me whether I really believed
    there ever was such a woman.
    “So — reviewing his own case, would not believe in Jonas Chuzzlewit.
    ‘I like Oliver Twist,’ says —, ‘for I am fond of children.  But the
    book is unnatural, for who would think of being cruel to poor little
    Oliver Twist!’
    “Nevertheless I will bear the dog in my mind, and if I can hit him
    between the eyes so that he shall stagger more than you or I have
    done this Christmas under the combined effects of punch and turkey, I
    will.
    “Thank you cordially for your note.  Excuse this scrap of paper.  I
    thought it was a whole sheet until I turned it over.
                                                             “My dear Sir,
                                                        “Faithfully yours,
                                                        “CHARLES DICKENS.”
To a collection of Sketches and Tales by a Working Man, published in
1844, {26} Charles Dickens was induced to contribute a preface, from
which we select the following passages:—
    “I do not recommend it as a book of surpassing originality or
    transcendent merit . . . I do not claim to have discovered, in humble
    life, an extraordinary and brilliant genius.  I cannot charge mankind
    in general with having entered into a conspiracy to neglect the
    author of this volume, or to leave him pining in obscurity.  I have
    not the smallest intention of comparing him with Burns, the
    exciseman; or with Bloomfield, the shoemaker; or with Ebenezer
    Elliott, the worker in iron; or with James Hogg, the shepherd.  I see
    no reason to be hot, or bitter, or lowering, or sarcastic, or
    indignant, or fierce, or sour, or sharp, in his behalf.  I have
    nothing to rail at; nothing to exalt; nothing to flourish in the face
    of a stony-hearted world; and have but a very short and simple story
    to tell.
