So Tabby's table-cloth did make a beautiful and useful end at last.
[Illustration]
ELI'S EDUCATION
"My turn now," said Walt, as they assembled again, after a busy day
spent in snow-balling, statue-making, and tumbling in the drifts that
still continued to rise on all sides.
"Here is just the story for you and Geoff. You are getting ready for
college, after years of the best schooling, and it will do you good to
hear how hard some boys have had to work to get a little learning," said
Grandma, glancing at the slip that Walt drew from the basket which Aunt
Elinor held out to him, and from which Lotty had drawn the story of
"Tabby's Table Cloth."
"This is a true tale, and the man became famous for his wisdom, as well
as much loved and honored for his virtue, and interest in all good
things," added Aunt Elinor, as she began to read the story of
                           ELI'S EDUCATION.
Many years ago, a boy of sixteen sat in a little room in an old
farm-house up among the Connecticut hills, writing busily in a book
made of odd bits of paper stitched together, with a cover formed of two
thin boards. The lid of a blue chest was his desk, the end of a tallow
candle stuck into a potato was his lamp, a mixture of soot and vinegar
his ink, and a quill from the gray goose his pen. A "Webster's
Spelling-book," "Dilworth's New Guide to the English Tongue," "Daboll's
Arithmetic," and the "American Preceptor," stood on the chimney-piece
over his head, with the "Assembly Catechism," and New Testament, in the
place of honor. This was his library; and now and then a borrowed
"Pilgrim's Progress," "Fox's Book of Martyrs," or some stray volume,
gladdened his heart; for he passionately loved books, and scoured the
neighborhood for miles around to feed this steadily increasing hunger.
Every penny he could earn or save went to buy a song or a story from the
peddlers who occasionally climbed the hill to the solitary farm-house.
When others took a noon-spell, he read under the trees or by the fire.
He carried a book in his pocket, and studied as he went with the cows to
and from the pasture, and sat late in his little room, ciphering on an
old slate, or puzzling his young brain over some question which no one
could answer for him.
His father had no patience with him, called him a shiftless dreamer, and
threatened to burn the beloved books. But his mother defended him, for
he was her youngest and the pride of her heart; so she let him scribble
all over her floors before she scrubbed them up, dipped extra thick
candles for his use, saved every scrap of paper to swell his little
store, and firmly believed that he would turn out the great man of the
family. His brothers joked about his queer ways, but in his sisters he
found firm friends and tender comforters for all his woes. So he
struggled along, working on the farm in summer and in a clock shop
during the winter, with such brief spells of schooling as he could get
between whiles, improving even these poor opportunities so well that he
was letter-writer for all the young people in the neighborhood.
