"What's that?" exclaimed the Ensign, as a sudden pause followed that
fatal sound.
"It came from under the table," added Captain Brown, and a hand lifted a
corner of the cloth.
A shiver went through Tabby, and she held her breath, with her eye upon
that big, brown hand; but the next moment she could have laughed with
joy, for pussy saved her. The cat had come to doze on her warm skirts,
and when the cloth was raised, fancying she was to be fed by her master,
puss rose and walked out purring loudly, tail erect, with its white tip
waving like a flag of truce.
"'Tis but the old cat, gentlemen. A good beast, and, fortunately for us,
unable to report our conference," said Mr. Bliss, with an air of relief,
for he had started guiltily at the bare idea of an eavesdropper.
"She sneezed as if she were as great a snuff-taker as an old woman of
whom we asked our way above here," laughed the Ensign, as they all rose.
"And there she is now, coming along as if our grenadiers were after
her!" exclaimed the Captain, as the sound of steps and a wailing voice
came nearer and nearer.
Tabby took a long breath, and vowed that she would beg or buy the dear
old cat that had saved her from destruction. Then she forgot her own
danger in listening to the poor woman, who came in crying that her
neighbors said she must leave town at once, or they would tar and
feather her for showing spies the road to a Tory's house.
"Well for me I came and heard their plots, or I might be sent off in
like case," thought the girl, feeling that the more perils she
encountered, the greater heroine she would be.
Mr. Bliss comforted the old soul, bidding her stay there till the
neighbors forgot her, and the officers gave her some money to pay for
the costly service she had done them. Then they left the room, and after
some delay the three men set off; but Tabby was compelled to stay in her
hiding-place till the table was cleared, and the women deep in gossip,
as they washed dishes in the kitchen. Then the little spy crept out
softly, and raising the window with great care, ran away as fast as her
stiff limbs would carry her.
By the time she reached the Deacon's, however, and told her tale, the
Tories were well on their way, Mr. Bliss having provided them with
horses that his own flight might be the speedier.
So they escaped; but the warning was given, and Tabby received great
praise for her hour under the table. The town's-people hastened their
preparations, and had time to remove the most valuable stores to
neighboring towns; to mount their cannon and drill their minute-men; for
these resolute farmers meant to resist oppression, and the world knows
how well they did it when the hour came.
