"'All right!' said Joe. 'Rest a bit, and have another ready. They'll
soon finish that and want more. We must go easy, for Buck is nearly
blown.'
"I prepared my ammunition, and, in what seemed five minutes, I heard the
patter of feet behind us, and the fiery eyes were close by. Over went
the second mouthful, and then the third, and the fourth; but they
seemed more ravenous than ever, and each time were back sooner in
greater numbers.
"We were nearly out of the woods when the last was gone, and if Buck had
only had strength we should have been safe. But it was plain to see that
he couldn't keep up much longer, for he was very old, though he'd been a
fine horse in his prime.
"'This looks bad, little Betsey. Cover up in the robes, and hold fast to
me. The beasts will begin to snatch presently, and I'll have to fight
'em off. Thank the powers, I've my arms left.'
"As he spoke, Joe pulled me close, and wrapped me up, then took the
whip, ready to rap the first wolf that dared come near enough to be hit.
We didn't wait long; up they raced, and began to leap and snarl in a way
that made my heart stand still, at first. Then my temper rose, and
catching up the hot brick I had for my feet, I fired it with such good
aim that one sharp, black nose disappeared with a yelp of pain.
"'Hit 'em again, Betsey! Take the demijohn and bang 'em well. We are
nearing Beaman's, and the brutes will soon drop off.'
"It was a lively scrimmage for a few minutes, as we both warmed to our
work, Joe thrashing away with his whip on one side, and I on the other
flourishing the demijohn in which we had carried some cider for the
supper.
"But it was soon over, for in the fury of the fight Joe forgot the
horse; poor Buck made a sudden bolt, upset the sleigh down a bank, and,
breaking loose, tore back along the road with the wolves after him.
"'Run, Betsey! run for your life, and send Beaman's folks back! I'm done
for--my leg's broken. Never mind. I'll crawl under the sleigh, and be
all right till you come. The wolves will take a good while to pick poor
Buck's bones.'
"Just waiting to see Joe safe, I ran as I never ran before,--and I was
always light of foot. How I did it I don't know, for I'd forgot to put
on my moccasins (we didn't have snow-boots, you know, in my young days),
and there I was, tearing along that snowy road in my blue kid slippers
like a crazy thing. It was nigh a mile, and my heart was 'most broke
before I got there; but I kept my eye on the light in Hetty's winder and
tugged along, blessing her for the guide and comfort that candle was.
The last bit was down hill, or I couldn't have done it; for when I fell
on the doorstep my voice was clean gone, and I could only lie and rap,
rap, rap! till they came flying. I just got breath enough to gasp out
and point:--
