There was a long silence between the two men. Granice, with a throbbing
heart, watched Denver refill his pipe. The editor, at any rate, did not
sneer and flout him. After all, journalism gave a deeper insight than
the law into the fantastic possibilities of life, prepared one better to
allow for the incalculableness of human impulses.
"Well?" Granice faltered out.
Denver stood up with a shrug. "Look here, man--what's wrong with you?
Make a clean breast of it! Nerves gone to smash? I'd like to take you
to see a chap I know--an ex-prize-fighter--who's a wonder at pulling
fellows in your state out of their hole--"
"Oh, oh--" Granice broke in. He stood up also, and the two men eyed each
other. "You don't believe me, then?"
"This yarn--how can I? There wasn't a flaw in your alibi."
"But haven't I filled it full of them now?"
Denver shook his head. "I might think so if I hadn't happened to know
that you _wanted_ to. There's the hitch, don't you see?"
Granice groaned. "No, I didn't. You mean my wanting to be found
guilty--?"
"Of course! If somebody else had accused you, the story might have been
worth looking into. As it is, a child could have invented it. It doesn't
do much credit to your ingenuity."
Granice turned sullenly toward the door. What was the use of arguing?
But on the threshold a sudden impulse drew him back. "Look here,
Denver--I daresay you're right. But will you do just one thing to
prove it? Put my statement in the _Investigator_, just as I've made it.
Ridicule it as much as you like. Only give the other fellows a chance at
it--men who don't know anything about me. Set them talking and looking
about. I don't care a damn whether _you_ believe me--what I want is
to convince the Grand Jury! I oughtn't to have come to a man who knows
me--your cursed incredulity is infectious. I don't put my case well,
because I know in advance it's discredited, and I almost end by not
believing it myself. That's why I can't convince _you_. It's a vicious
circle." He laid a hand on Denver's arm. "Send a stenographer, and put
my statement in the paper."
But Denver did not warm to the idea. "My dear fellow, you seem to forget
that all the evidence was pretty thoroughly sifted at the time, every
possible clue followed up. The public would have been ready enough then
to believe that you murdered old Lenman--you or anybody else. All they
wanted was a murderer--the most improbable would have served. But your
alibi was too confoundedly complete. And nothing you've told me has
shaken it." Denver laid his cool hand over the other's burning fingers.
"Look here, old fellow, go home and work up a better case--then come in
and submit it to the _Investigator_."
IV
THE perspiration was rolling off Granice's forehead. Every few minutes
he had to draw out his handkerchief and wipe the moisture from his
haggard face.
