“Didn’t swipe it,” Nicholas answered, meeting them on their own ground
and encouraging the idea that we had stolen the _Coal Tar Maggie_.  “And
if we did, what of it?”
“Well, I don’t admire your taste, that’s all,” sneered he of the Mexican
features.  “I’d rot on the beach first before I’d take a tub that
couldn’t get out of its own way.”
“How were we to know till we tried her?” Nicholas asked, so innocently as
to cause a laugh.  “And how do you get the oysters?” he hurried on.  “We
want a load of them; that’s what we came for, a load of oysters.”
“What d’ye want ’em for?” demanded the Porpoise.
“Oh, to give away to our friends, of course,” Nicholas retorted.  “That’s
what you do with yours, I suppose.”
This started another laugh, and as our visitors grew more genial we could
see that they had not the slightest suspicion of our identity or purpose.
“Didn’t I see you on the dock in Oakland the other day?” the Centipede
asked suddenly of me.
“Yep,” I answered boldly, taking the bull by the horns.  “I was watching
you fellows and figuring out whether we’d go oystering or not.  It’s a
pretty good business, I calculate, and so we’re going in for it.  That
is,” I hastened to add, “if you fellows don’t mind.”
“I’ll tell you one thing, which ain’t two things,” he replied, “and that
is you’ll have to hump yerself an’ get a better boat.  We won’t stand to
be disgraced by any such box as this.  Understand?”
“Sure,” I said.  “Soon as we sell some oysters we’ll outfit in style.”
“And if you show yerself square an’ the right sort,” he went on, “why,
you kin run with us.  But if you don’t” (here his voice became stern and
menacing), “why, it’ll be the sickest day of yer life.  Understand?”
“Sure,” I said.
After that and more warning and advice of similar nature, the
conversation became general, and we learned that the beds were to be
raided that very night.  As they got into their boats, after an hour’s
stay, we were invited to join them in the raid with the assurance of “the
more the merrier.”
“Did you notice that short, Mexican-looking chap?” Nicholas asked, when
they had departed to their various sloops.  “He’s Barchi, of the Sporting
Life Gang, and the fellow that came with him is Skilling.  They’re both
out now on five thousand dollars’ bail.”
I had heard of the Sporting Life Gang before, a crowd of hoodlums and
criminals that terrorized the lower quarters of Oakland, and two-thirds
of which were usually to be found in state’s prison for crimes that
ranged from perjury and ballot-box stuffing to murder.
“They are not regular oyster pirates,” Nicholas continued.  “They’ve just
come down for the lark and to make a few dollars.  But we’ll have to
watch out for them.”
We sat in the cockpit and discussed the details of our plan till eleven
o’clock had passed, when we heard the rattle of an oar in a boat from the
direction of the _Ghost_.  We hauled up our own skiff, tossed in a few
sacks, and rowed over.  There we found all the skiffs assembling, it
being the intention to raid the beds in a body.
