We pulled ahead several strokes and drifted with the current.  Four pairs
of eyes searched the surface of the water, but never another ripple
showed, and never another glimpse did we catch of the black head and
white shoulder.
“It’s the Porpoise,” Nicholas said.  “It would take broad daylight for us
to catch him.”
At a quarter to three the pirates gave their first sign of weakening.  We
heard cries for help, in the unmistakable voice of the Centipede, and
this time, on rowing closer, we were not fired upon.  The Centipede was
in a truly perilous plight.  Only the heads and shoulders of his
fellow-marauders showed above the water as they braced themselves against
the current, while his feet were off the bottom and they were supporting
him.
“Now, lads,” Charley said briskly, “we have got you, and you can’t get
away.  If you cut up rough, we’ll have to leave you alone and the water
will finish you.  But if you’re good we’ll take you aboard, one man at a
time, and you’ll all be saved.  What do you say?”
“Ay,” they chorused hoarsely between their chattering teeth.
“Then one man at a time, and the short men first.”
The Centipede was the first to be pulled aboard, and he came willingly,
though he objected when the constable put the handcuffs on him.  Barchi
was next hauled in, quite meek and resigned from his soaking.  When we
had ten in, our boat we drew back, and the second Whitehall was loaded.
The third Whitehall received nine prisoners only—a catch of twenty-nine
in all.
“You didn’t get the Porpoise,” the Centipede said exultantly, as though
his escape materially diminished our success.
Charley laughed.  “But we saw him just the same, a-snorting for shore
like a puffing pig.”
It was a mild and shivering band of pirates that we marched up the beach
to the oyster house.  In answer to Charley’s knock, the door was flung
open, and a pleasant wave of warm air rushed out upon us.
“You can dry your clothes here, lads, and get some hot coffee,” Charley
announced, as they filed in.
And there, sitting ruefully by the fire, with a steaming mug in his hand,
was the Porpoise.  With one accord Nicholas and I looked at Charley.  He
laughed gleefully.
“That comes of imagination,” he said.  “When you see a thing, you’ve got
to see it all around, or what’s the good of seeing it at all?  I saw the
beach, so I left a couple of constables behind to keep an eye on it.
That’s all.”
THE SIEGE OF THE “LANCASHIRE QUEEN”
POSSIBLY our most exasperating experience on the fish patrol was when
Charley Le Grant and I laid a two weeks’ siege to a big four-masted
English ship.  Before we had finished with the affair, it became a pretty
mathematical problem, and it was by the merest chance that we came into
possession of the instrument that brought it to a successful termination.
