The Carrier had been so much astounded by his little wife, and so busily
engaged in soothing and tending her, that he had scarcely been conscious
of the Stranger's presence until now, when he again stood there, their
only guest.
"He don't belong to them, you see," said John. "I must give him a hint
to go."
"I beg your pardon, friend," said the old gentleman, advancing to him;
"the more so as I fear your wife has not been well; but the Attendant
whom my infirmity," he touched his ears, and shook his head, "renders
almost indispensable, not having arrived, I fear there must be some
mistake. The bad night which made the shelter of your comfortable cart
(may I never have a worse!) so acceptable, is still as bad as ever.
Would you, in your kindness, suffer me to rent a bed here?"
"Yes, yes," cried Dot. "Yes! Certainly!"
"Oh!" said the Carrier, surprised by the rapidity of this consent.
"Well! I don't object; but still I'm not quite sure that----"
"Hush!" she interrupted. "Dear John!"
"Why, he's stone deaf," urged John.
"I know he is, but----Yes, sir, certainly. Yes, certainly! I'll make him
up a bed directly, John."
As she hurried off to do it, the flutter of her spirits, and the
agitation of her manner, were so strange, that the Carrier stood looking
after her, quite confounded.
"Did its mothers make it up a Beds, then!" cried Miss Slowboy to the
Baby; "and did its hair grow brown and curly when its caps was lifted
off, and frighten it, a precious Pets, a sitting by the fires!"
With that unaccountable attraction of the mind to trifles, which is
often incidental to a state of doubt and confusion, the Carrier, as he
walked slowly to and fro, found himself mentally repeating even these
absurd words, many times. So many times, that he got them by heart, and
was still conning them over and over, like a lesson, when Tilly, after
administering as much friction to the little bald head with her hand as
she thought wholesome (according to the practice of nurses), had once
more tied the Baby's cap on.
"And frighten it, a precious Pets, a sitting by the fires. What
frightened Dot, I wonder?" mused the Carrier, pacing to and fro.
He scouted, from his heart, the insinuations of the toy merchant, and
yet they filled him with a vague, indefinite uneasiness. For Tackleton
was quick and sly; and he had that painful sense, himself, of being a
man of slow perception, that a broken hint was always worrying to him.
He certainly had no intention in his mind of linking anything that
Tackleton had said with the unusual conduct of his wife, but the two
subjects of reflection came into his mind together, and he could not
keep them asunder.
The bed was soon made ready; and the visitor, declining all refreshment
but a cup of tea, retired. Then, Dot--quite well again, she said, quite
well again--arranged the great chair in the chimney-corner for her
husband; filled his pipe and gave it him; and took her usual little
stool beside him on the hearth.
