I have seen him! and can now realise my misfortune more than I have
hitherto been able to do.  Oh, the bitterness of the cup I drink!  But I
bow submissive.  God _must_ have done right.  I do not want to feel less,
but to acquiesce more simply.
                                * * * * *
There were some Jewish passengers on board the Royal Charter, and the
gratitude of the Jewish people is feelingly expressed in the following
letter bearing date from ‘the office of the Chief Rabbi:’
    REVEREND SIR.  I cannot refrain from expressing to you my heartfelt
    thanks on behalf of those of my flock whose relatives have
    unfortunately been among those who perished at the late wreck of the
    Royal Charter.  You have, indeed, like Boaz, ‘not left off your
    kindness to the living and the dead.’
    You have not alone acted kindly towards the living by receiving them
    hospitably at your house, and energetically assisting them in their
    mournful duty, but also towards the dead, by exerting yourself to
    have our co-religionists buried in our ground, and according to our
    rites.  May our heavenly Father reward you for your acts of humanity
    and true philanthropy!
The ‘Old Hebrew congregation of Liverpool’ thus express themselves
through their secretary:
    REVEREND SIR.  The wardens of this congregation have learned with
    great pleasure that, in addition to those indefatigable exertions, at
    the scene of the late disaster to the Royal Charter, which have
    received universal recognition, you have very benevolently employed
    your valuable efforts to assist such members of our faith as have
    sought the bodies of lost friends to give them burial in our
    consecrated grounds, with the observances and rites prescribed by the
    ordinances of our religion.
The wardens desire me to take the earliest available opportunity to offer
to you, on behalf of our community, the expression of their warm
acknowledgments and grateful thanks, and their sincere wishes for your
continued welfare and prosperity.
A Jewish gentleman writes:
    REVEREND AND DEAR SIR.  I take the opportunity of thanking you right
    earnestly for the promptness you displayed in answering my note with
    full particulars concerning my much lamented brother, and I also
    herein beg to express my sincere regard for the willingness you
    displayed and for the facility you afforded for getting the remains
    of my poor brother exhumed.  It has been to us a most sorrowful and
    painful event, but when we meet with such friends as yourself, it in
    a measure, somehow or other, abates that mental anguish, and makes
    the suffering so much easier to be borne.  Considering the
    circumstances connected with my poor brother’s fate, it does, indeed,
    appear a hard one.  He had been away in all seven years; he returned
    four years ago to see his family.  He was then engaged to a very
    amiable young lady.  He had been very successful abroad, and was now
    returning to fulfil his sacred vow; he brought all his property with
    him in gold uninsured.  We heard from him when the ship stopped at
    Queenstown, when he was in the highest of hope, and in a few short
    hours afterwards all was washed away.
