'Really?  A very remarkable way, Mr. Sapsea, of acquiring a knowledge of
men and things.'
'I mention it, sir,' Mr. Sapsea rejoins, with unspeakable complacency,
'because, as I say, it don't do to boast of what you are; but show how
you came to be it, and then you prove it.'
'Most interesting.  We were to speak of the late Mrs. Sapsea.'
'We were, sir.'  Mr. Sapsea fills both glasses, and takes the decanter
into safe keeping again.  'Before I consult your opinion as a man of
taste on this little trifle'--holding it up--'which is _but_ a trifle,
and still has required some thought, sir, some little fever of the brow,
I ought perhaps to describe the character of the late Mrs. Sapsea, now
dead three quarters of a year.'
Mr. Jasper, in the act of yawning behind his wineglass, puts down that
screen and calls up a look of interest.  It is a little impaired in its
expressiveness by his having a shut-up gape still to dispose of, with
watering eyes.
'Half a dozen years ago, or so,' Mr. Sapsea proceeds, 'when I had
enlarged my mind up to--I will not say to what it now is, for that might
seem to aim at too much, but up to the pitch of wanting another mind to
be absorbed in it--I cast my eye about me for a nuptial partner.
Because, as I say, it is not good for man to be alone.'
Mr. Jasper appears to commit this original idea to memory.
'Miss Brobity at that time kept, I will not call it the rival
establishment to the establishment at the Nuns' House opposite, but I
will call it the other parallel establishment down town.  The world did
have it that she showed a passion for attending my sales, when they took
place on half holidays, or in vacation time.  The world did put it about,
that she admired my style.  The world did notice that as time flowed by,
my style became traceable in the dictation-exercises of Miss Brobity's
pupils.  Young man, a whisper even sprang up in obscure malignity, that
one ignorant and besotted Churl (a parent) so committed himself as to
object to it by name.  But I do not believe this.  For is it likely that
any human creature in his right senses would so lay himself open to be
pointed at, by what I call the finger of scorn?'
Mr. Jasper shakes his head.  Not in the least likely.  Mr. Sapsea, in a
grandiloquent state of absence of mind, seems to refill his visitor's
glass, which is full already; and does really refill his own, which is
empty.
'Miss Brobity's Being, young man, was deeply imbued with homage to Mind.
She revered Mind, when launched, or, as I say, precipitated, on an
extensive knowledge of the world.  When I made my proposal, she did me
the honour to be so overshadowed with a species of Awe, as to be able to
articulate only the two words, "O Thou!" meaning myself.  Her limpid blue
eyes were fixed upon me, her semi-transparent hands were clasped
together, pallor overspread her aquiline features, and, though encouraged
to proceed, she never did proceed a word further.  I disposed of the
parallel establishment by private contract, and we became as nearly one
as could be expected under the circumstances.  But she never could, and
she never did, find a phrase satisfactory to her perhaps-too-favourable
estimate of my intellect.  To the very last (feeble action of liver), she
addressed me in the same unfinished terms.'
