'Cab!' said Mr. Pickwick.
'Here you are, sir,' shouted a strange specimen of the human race, in a
sackcloth coat, and apron of the same, who, with a brass label and
number round his neck, looked as if he were catalogued in some
collection of rarities. This was the waterman. 'Here you are, sir. Now,
then, fust cab!' And the first cab having been fetched from the public-
house, where he had been smoking his first pipe, Mr. Pickwick and his
portmanteau were thrown into the vehicle.
'Golden Cross,' said Mr. Pickwick.
'Only a bob's vorth, Tommy,' cried the driver sulkily, for the
information of his friend the waterman, as the cab drove off.
'How old is that horse, my friend?' inquired Mr. Pickwick, rubbing his
nose with the shilling he had reserved for the fare.
'Forty-two,' replied the driver, eyeing him askant.
'What!' ejaculated Mr. Pickwick, laying his hand upon his note-book. The
driver reiterated his former statement. Mr. Pickwick looked very hard at
the man's face, but his features were immovable, so he noted down the
fact forthwith.
'And how long do you keep him out at a time?' inquired Mr. Pickwick,
searching for further information.
'Two or three veeks,' replied the man.
'Weeks!' said Mr. Pickwick in astonishment, and out came the note-book
again.
'He lives at Pentonwil when he's at home,' observed the driver coolly,
'but we seldom takes him home, on account of his weakness.'
'On account of his weakness!' reiterated the perplexed Mr. Pickwick.
'He always falls down when he's took out o' the cab,' continued the
driver, 'but when he's in it, we bears him up werry tight, and takes him
in werry short, so as he can't werry well fall down; and we've got a
pair o' precious large wheels on, so ven he does move, they run after
him, and he must go on--he can't help it.'
Mr. Pickwick entered every word of this statement in his note-book, with
the view of communicating it to the club, as a singular instance of the
tenacity of life in horses under trying circumstances. The entry was
scarcely completed when they reached the Golden Cross. Down jumped the
driver, and out got Mr. Pickwick. Mr. Tupman, Mr. Snodgrass, and Mr.
Winkle, who had been anxiously waiting the arrival of their illustrious
leader, crowded to welcome him.
'Here's your fare,' said Mr. Pickwick, holding out the shilling to the
driver.
What was the learned man's astonishment, when that unaccountable person
flung the money on the pavement, and requested in figurative terms to be
allowed the pleasure of fighting him (Mr. Pickwick) for the amount!
'You are mad,' said Mr. Snodgrass.
'Or drunk,' said Mr. Winkle.
'Or both,' said Mr. Tupman.
'Come on!' said the cab-driver, sparring away like clockwork. 'Come on--
all four on you.'
'Here's a lark!' shouted half a dozen hackney coachmen. 'Go to vork,
Sam!--and they crowded with great glee round the party.
'What's the row, Sam?' inquired one gentleman in black calico sleeves.
