    "There was not an hour in the day in which they did not confer
    together on the means of avoiding death, and on the art of rendering
    themselves immortal.  Their conferences did not take place like those
    of other people; the fear of breathing an air which was too cold or
    top warm, the dread lest the wind should be too dry or too moist--in
    short, the imagination that the weather might not be as temperate as
    they thought necessary for the preservation of their health, caused
    them to write letters from one room to the other.  It would be
    extremely fortunate if these notes could be found, and formed into a
    collection.  I am convinced that they would contain rules for the
    regimen of life, precautions even as to the proper time for applying
    remedies, and also remedies which Hippocrates and Galen, with all
    their science, never heard of.  Such a collection would be very
    useful to the public, and would be highly profitable to the faculties
    of Paris and Montpellier.  If these letters were discovered, great
    advantages of all kinds might be derived from them, for they were
    princesses who had nothing mortal about them but the _knowledge_ that
    they were mortal.  In their writings might be learned all politeness
    in style, and the most delicate manner of speaking on all subjects.
    There is nothing with which they were not acquainted; they knew the
    affairs of all the States in the world, through the share they had in
    all the intrigues of its private members, either in matters of
    gallantry, as in other things, on which their advice was necessary;
    either to adjust embroilments and quarrels, or to excite them, for
    the sake of the advantages which their friends could derive from
    them;--in a word, they were persons through whose hands the secrets
    of the whole world had to pass.  The Princess Parthenie (Mme. de
    Sable) had a palate as delicate as her mind; nothing could equal the
    magnificence of the entertainments she gave; all the dishes were
    exquisite, and her cleanliness was beyond all that could be imagined.
    It was in their time that writing came into use; previously nothing
    was written but marriage contracts, and letters were never heard of;
    thus it is to them that we owe a practice so convenient in
    intercourse."
Still later in 1669, when the most uncompromising of the Port Royalists
seemed to tax Madame de Sable with lukewarmness that she did not join
them at Port-Royal-des-Champs, we find her writing to the stern M. de
Sevigny: "En verite, je crois que je ne pourrois mieux faire que de tout
quitter et de m'en aller la.  Mais que deviendroient ces frayeurs de
n'avoir pas de medicines a choisir, ni de chirurgien pour me saigner?"
Mademoiselle, as we have seen, hints at the love of delicate eating,
which many of Madame de Sable's friends numbered among her foibles,
especially after her religious career had commenced.  She had a genius
in_ friandise_, and knew how to gratify the palate without offending the
highest sense of refinement.  Her sympathetic nature showed itself in
this as in other things; she was always sending _bonnes bouches_ to her
friends, and trying to communicate to them her science and taste in the
affairs of the table.  Madame de Longueville, who had not the luxurious
tendencies of her friend, writes: "Je vous demande au nom de Dieu, que
vous ne me prepariez aucun ragout.  Surtout ne me donnez point de festin.
Au nom de Dieu, qu'il n'y ait rien que ce qu'on peut manger, car vous
savez que c'est inutile pour moi; de plus j'en ai scrupule."  But other
friends had more appreciation of her niceties.  Voiture thanks her for
her melons, and assures her that they are better than those of yesterday;
Madame de Choisy hopes that her ridicule of Jansenism will not provoke
Madame de Sable to refuse her the receipt for salad; and La Rochefoucauld
writes: "You cannot do me a greater charity than to permit the bearer of
this letter to enter into the mysteries of your marmalade and your
genuine preserves, and I humbly entreat you to do everything you can in
his favor.  If I could hope for two dishes of those preserves, which I
did not deserve to eat before, I should be indebted to you all my life."
For our own part, being as far as possible from fraternizing with those
spiritual people who convert a deficiency into a principle, and pique
themselves on an obtuse palate as a point of superiority, we are not
inclined to number Madame de Sable's _friandise_ among her defects.  M.
Cousin, too, is apologetic on this point.  He says:
