How long this went on he had forgotten; but it continued for some time
before there came the end of his life, the last day he could remember. I
was barred out of that day. His lips told me of its physical
appearances, while from his wet, bright eyes and his flushed skin, his
beautiful signs of a noble excitement, I tried to derive the real story.
It seemed that the day when he bicycled over to Monkey Island, happy
because Uncle Ambrose had gone up to town and he could stay to supper
with the Allingtons, was the most glorious day the year had yet brought.
The whole world seemed melting into light. Cumulus-clouds floated very
high, like lumps of white light, against a deep, glowing sky, and
dropped dazzling reflections on the beaming Thames. The trees moved not
like timber, shocked by wind, but floatingly, like weeds at the bottom
of a well of sunshine. When Margaret came out of the porch and paused,
as she always did, to crush and smell the walnut-leaf and shade her eyes
with her hand, her white dress shone like silver.
[Illustration: He lay there in the confiding relaxation of a child]
She brought the punt across and said very primly, "Dad will be
disappointed; he's gone up to town on business," and answered gravely,
"That is very kind of you," when he took the punt-pole from her and
said laughingly: "Never mind. I'll come and see you all the same." (I
could see them as Chris spoke, so young and pale and solemn, with the
intense light spilling all around them.) That afternoon they did not sit
in the punt by the landing-stage, but wandered about the island and
played with the rabbits and looked at the ducks and were inordinately
silent. For a long time they stood in the fringe of rough grass on the
other side of the island, and Margaret breathed contentedly that the
Thames was so beautiful. Past the spit of sand at the far end of the
island, where a great swan swanked to the empty reach that it would
protect its mate against all comers, the river opened to a silver
breadth between flat meadows stretching back to far rows of pin-thick
black poplars, until it wound away to Windsor behind a line of high
trees whose heads were bronze with unopened buds, and whose flanks were
hidden by a head of copper-beech and crimson and white hawthorn.
Chris said he would take her down to Dorney Lock in the skiff, and she
got in very silently and obediently; but as soon as they were out in
midstream she developed a sense of duty, and said she could not leave
the inn with just that boy to look after it. And then she went into the
kitchen and, sucking in her lower lip for shyness, very conscientiously
cut piles of bread and butter in case some visitors came to tea. Just
when Chris was convincing her of the impossibility of any visitors
arriving they came, a fat woman in a luscious pink blouse and an old
chap who had been rowing in a tweed waistcoat. Chris went out, though
Margaret laughed and trembled and begged him not to, and waited on them.
It should have been a great lark, but suddenly he hated them, and when
they offered him a tip for pushing the boat off, he snarled absurdly
and ran back, miraculously relieved, to the bar-parlor.
