Three years later, as every one knows, people were beginning to talk
of nationalism, and "public opinion" first came upon the scene. Stepan
Trofimovitch laughed a great deal.
"My friends," he instructed us, "if our nationalism has 'dawned' as
they keep repeating in the papers--it's still at school, at some German
'Peterschule,' sitting over a German book and repeating its everlasting
German lesson, and its German teacher will make it go down on its knees
when he thinks fit. I think highly of the German teacher. But nothing
has happened and nothing of the kind has dawned and everything is going
on in the old way, that is, as ordained by God. To my thinking that
should be enough for Russia, _pour notre Sainte Russie_. Besides, all this
Slavism and nationalism is too old to be new. Nationalism, if you like,
has never existed among us except as a distraction for gentlemen's
clubs, and Moscow ones at that. I'm not talking of the days of Igor, of
course. And besides it all comes of idleness. Everything in Russia comes
of idleness, everything good and fine even. It all springs from the
charming, cultured, whimsical idleness of our gentry! I'm ready to
repeat it for thirty thousand years. We don't know how to live by our
own labour. And as for the fuss they're making now about the 'dawn'
of some sort of public opinion, has it so suddenly dropped from heaven
without any warning? How is it they don't understand that before we
can have an opinion of our own we must have work, our own work, our own
initiative in things, our own experience. Nothing is to be gained for
nothing. If we work we shall have an opinion of our own. But as we
never shall work, our opinions will be formed for us by those who have
hitherto done the work instead of us, that is, as always, Europe, the
everlasting Germans--our teachers for the last two centuries. Moreover,
Russia is too big a tangle for us to unravel alone without the Germans,
and without hard work. For the last twenty years I've been sounding the
alarm, and the summons to work. I've given up my life to that appeal,
and, in my folly I put faith in it. Now I have lost faith in it, but I
sound the alarm still, and shall sound it to the tomb. I will pull at
the bell-ropes until they toll for my own requiem!"
"Alas! We could do nothing but assent. We applauded our teacher and with
what warmth, indeed! And, after all, my friends, don't we still hear
to-day, every hour, at every step, the same "charming," "clever,"
"liberal," old Russian nonsense? Our teacher believed in God.
"I can't understand why they make me out an infidel here," he used to
say sometimes. "I believe in God, _mais distinguons_, I believe in Him as
a Being who is conscious of Himself in me only. I cannot believe as my
Nastasya (the servant) or like some country gentleman who believes 'to
be on the safe side,' or like our dear Shatov--but no, Shatov doesn't
come into it. Shatov believes 'on principle,' like a Moscow Slavophil.
As for Christianity, for all my genuine respect for it, I'm not a
Christian. I am more of an antique pagan, like the great Goethe, or
like an ancient Greek. The very fact that Christianity has failed to
understand woman is enough, as George Sand has so splendidly shown in
one of her great novels. As for the bowings, fasting and all the rest
of it, I don't understand what they have to do with me. However busy the
informers may be here, I don't care to become a Jesuit. In the year 1847
Byelinsky, who was abroad, sent his famous letter to Gogol, and warmly
reproached him for believing in some sort of God. _Entre nous soit dit,_ I
can imagine nothing more comic than the moment when Gogol (the Gogol of
that period!) read that phrase, and... the whole letter! But dismissing
the humorous aspect, and, as I am fundamentally in agreement, I point to
them and say--these were men! They knew how to love their people, they
knew how to suffer for them, they knew how to sacrifice everything for
them, yet they knew how to differ from them when they ought, and did not
filch certain ideas from them. Could Byelinsky have sought salvation
in Lenten oil, or peas with radish!..." But at this point Shatov
interposed.
