"Thank you for your kindness," Young Dick said generally to the three.
"I guess we'll get along all right. Of course, that twenty millions is
mine, and of course you've got to take care of it for me, seeing I know
nothing of business--"
"And we'll increase it for you, my boy, we'll increase it for you in
safe, conservative ways," Mr. Slocum assured him.
"No speculation," Young Dick warned. "Dad's just been lucky--I've heard
him say that times have changed and a fellow can't take the chances
everybody used to take."
From which, and from much which has already passed, it might
erroneously be inferred that Young Dick was a mean and money-grubbing
soul. On the contrary, he was at that instant entertaining secret
thoughts and plans so utterly regardless and disdainful of his twenty
millions as to place him on a par with a drunken sailor sowing the
beach with a three years' pay-day.
"I am only a boy," Young Dick went on. "But you don't know me very well
yet. We'll get better acquainted by and by, and, again thanking you...."
He paused, bowed briefly and grandly as lords in Nob Hill palaces early
learn to bow, and, by the quality of the pause, signified that the
audience was over. Nor did the impact of dismissal miss his guardians.
They, who had been co-lords with his father, withdrew confused and
perplexed. Messrs. Davidson and Slocum were on the point of resolving
their perplexity into wrath, as they went down the great stone stairway
to the waiting carriage, but Mr. Crockett, the testy and snappish,
muttered ecstatically: "The son of a gun! The little son of a gun!"
The carriage carried them down to the old Pacific Union Club, where,
for another hour, they gravely discussed the future of Young Dick
Forrest and pledged themselves anew to the faith reposed in them by
Lucky Richard Forrest. And down the hill, on foot, where grass grew on
the paved streets too steep for horse-traffic, Young Dick hurried. As
the height of land was left behind, almost immediately the palaces and
spacious grounds of the nabobs gave way to the mean streets and wooden
warrens of the working people. The San Francisco of 1887 as
incontinently intermingled its slums and mansions as did the old cities
of Europe. Nob Hill arose, like any medieval castle, from the mess and
ruck of common life that denned and laired at its base.
Young Dick came to pause alongside a corner grocery, the second story
of which was rented to Timothy Hagan Senior, who, by virtue of being a
policeman with a wage of a hundred dollars a month, rented this high
place to dwell above his fellows who supported families on no more than
forty and fifty dollars a month.
In vain Young Dick whistled up through the unscreened, open windows.
Tim Hagan Junior was not at home. But Young Dick wasted little wind in
the whistling. He was debating on possible adjacent places where Tim
Hagan might be, when Tim himself appeared around the corner, bearing a
lidless lard-can that foamed with steam beer. He grunted greeting, and
Young Dick grunted with equal roughness, just as if, a brief space
before, he had not, in most lordly fashion, terminated an audience with
three of the richest merchant-kings of an imperial city. Nor did his
possession of twenty increasing millions hint the slightest betrayal in
his voice or mitigate in the slightest the gruffness of his grunt.
