It was Yaverland's opportunity, for he had spent two years as chemist at
the Romanones mines in Andalusia; and he had learned by now the art of
talking to the Scotch, whom he had discovered to be as extravagantly
literate as they were unsensuous. To them panpipes might play in vain,
but almost any series of statistics or the more desiccated kind of
social fact recited with a terrier-like air of sagacity would entrance
them. "The mines are Baird's, you know--Sir Milne Baird; it's a Glasgow
firm...." "Mhm," said Mr. Philip, "I know who you mean." Detestable,
thought Yaverland, this Scotch locution which implies that one has made
a vague or incorrect description which only the phenomenal intelligence
of one's listener has enabled him to penetrate, but he set himself
suavely enough to describe the instability of Spanish labour, its
disposition to call strikes that were really larks, and the greater
willingness with which it keeps its saints' days rather than the
commandments; the feckless incapacity of the Spanish to exploit their
own minerals and the evangelic part played in the shameful shoes by
Scotch engineers; and the depleted state of the country in general,
which he was careful to ascribe not so much to the presence of
Catholicism as to the absence of Presbyterianism. And he advised Mr.
Philip that while a sojourn in the towns would reveal these sad
political conditions, there were other deplorable aspects of the
national decay which could only be witnessed if he took a few rides over
the countryside. ("A horse or a bicycle?" asked Mr. Philip doubtfully.)
Then he would have a pleasant holiday. The language presented few
difficulties, although travelling off the tracks in Andalusia was
sometimes impeded by the linguistic ingenuity of the peasants, who,
though they didn't neigh and whinny like the Castilians, went one better
by omitting the consonants. Why, there was a place which spelt itself
Algodonales on the map and calls itself Aooae.
He watched her under his lids as she silently tried it over.
It was a village of no importance, save for the road that close by
forded the Guadalete, which was a pale icy mountain stream, snow-broth,
as Shakespeare said. (Now what had he said to excite her so? Modesty and
a sense of office discipline were restraining some eager cry of her
mind, like white hands holding birds resolved on flight.) One passed
through it on a ride that Mr. Philip must certainly take when he went to
Spain. Yaverland himself had done it last February. He receded into a
dream of that springtime, yet kept his consciousness of the girl's rapt
attention, as one may clasp the warm hand of a friend while one thinks
deeply, and he sent his voice out to Mr. Philip as into a void,
describing how he had gone to Seville one saint's day and how the narrow
decaying streets, choked with loveliness like stagnant ditches filled
with a fair weed, had entertained him. For a time he had sat in the
Moorish courts of the Alcazar; he had visited the House of Pontius
Pilate and had watched through the carven windows the two stone women
that pray for ever among the flowers in the courtyard; he had lingered
by the market-stalls observing their exquisite, unprofitable trade. He
was telling not half the beauty that he recollected, save in a phrase
that he now and then dropped to the girl's manifest appetite for such
things, and he took a malign pleasure in painting, so to speak,
advertisement matter across the sky of his landscapes so that Mr. Philip
could swallow them as being of potential commercial value and not mere
foolish sensuous enjoyment. "There's so little real wealth in the
country that they have to buy and sell mere pretty things for God knows
what fraction of a farthing. On the stalls where you'd have cheap clocks
and crockery and Austrian glass, they had stacks of violets and
carnations--_violetas y claveles_...." Then a chill and a dimness passed
over the bright spectacle and a sunset flamed up half across the sky as
though light had been driven out of the gates by the sword and had
scaled the heaven that it might storm the city from above. The lanes
became little runnels of darkness and night slowly silted up the broader
streets. The incessant orgy of sound that by day had been but the
tuneless rattling of healthy throats and the chatter of castanets became
charged with tragedy by its passage through the grave twilight. The
people pressed about him like vivacious ghosts, differentiating
themselves from the dusk by wearing white flowers in their hair or
cherishing the glow-worm tip of a cigarette between their lips.
