"I was not so surprised at this as not presently to foresee that this
trouble would be brought upon you or upon Mr. ----; so I came immediately
to bring word of it, that you might be prepared for it, and might not be
surprised; but I see they have been too nimble for me, so that I know
not what to advise. The poor woman, it seems, is turned out of doors
into the street; and another of the neighbours there told me, that when
they took her children from her she swooned away, and when they
recovered her out of that, she ran distracted, and is put into a
madhouse by the parish, for there is nobody else to take any care of
her."
This was all acted to the life by this good, kind, poor creature; for
though her design was perfectly good and charitable, yet there was not
one word of it true in fact; for I was not turned out of doors by the
landlord, nor gone distracted. It was true, indeed, that at parting with
my poor children I fainted, and was like one mad when I came to myself
and found they were gone; but I remained in the house a good while after
that, as you shall hear.
While the poor woman was telling this dismal story, in came the
gentlewoman's husband, and though her heart was hardened against all
pity, who was really and nearly related to the children, for they were
the children of her own brother, yet the good man was quite softened
with the dismal relation of the circumstances of the family; and when
the poor woman had done, he said to his wife, "This is a dismal case,
my dear, indeed, and something must be done." His wife fell a-raving at
him: "What," says she, "do you want to have four children to keep? Have
we not children of our own? Would you have these brats come and eat up
my children's bread? No, no, let 'em go to the parish, and let them take
care of them; I'll take care of my own."
"Come, come, my dear," says the husband, "charity is a duty to the poor,
and he that gives to the poor lends to the Lord; let us lend our
heavenly Father a little of our children's bread, as you call it; it
will be a store well laid up for them, and will be the best security
that our children shall never come to want charity, or be turned out of
doors, as these poor innocent creatures are." "Don't tell me of
security," says the wife, "'tis a good security for our children to keep
what we have together, and provide for them, and then 'tis time enough
to help keep other folks' children. Charity begins at home."
"Well, my dear," says he again, "I only talk of putting out a little
money to interest: our Maker is a good borrower; never fear making a bad
debt there, child, I'll be bound for it."
