The son of Saturn spoke, and nodded thereupon with his dark eyebrows.
And then the ambrosial locks of the king were shaken over him from his
immortal head; and he made mighty Olympus tremble. Thus having
conferred, they separated. She at once plunged from splendid Olympus
into the profound sea. But Jove on the other hand [returned] to his
palace. But all the gods rose up together from their seats to meet their
sire; nor did any dare to await[59] him approaching, but all rose in his
presence. Thus indeed he sat there on his throne; nor was Juno
unconscious, having seen that silver-footed Thetis, the daughter of the
marine old man, had joined in deliberation with him. Forthwith with
reproaches she accosted Saturnian Jove:
"Which of the gods again, O deceitful one, has been concerting measures
with thee? Ever is it agreeable to thee, being apart from me, plotting
secret things, to decide thereon; nor hast thou ever yet deigned
willingly to tell me one word of what thou dost meditate."
   [Footnote 59: Heyne supplies "sedendo."]
To her then replied the father of men and gods: "O Juno, build up no
hopes of knowing all my counsels; difficult would they be for thee,
although thou art my consort. But whatever it may be fit for thee to
hear, none then either of gods or men shall know it before thee: but
whatever I wish to consider apart from the gods, do thou neither inquire
into any of these things, nor investigate them."
But him the large-eyed, venerable Juno then answered: "Most dread son
of Saturn, what a word hast thou spoken? Heretofore have I ever
questioned thee much, nor pryed [into thy secrets]; but thou mayest very
quietly deliberate on those things which thou desirest. But at present I
greatly fear in my soul, lest silver-footed Thetis, the daughter of the
marine old man, may have influenced thee: for at dawn she sat by thee
and embraced thy knees: to her I suspect thou didst plainly promise that
thou wouldest honour Achilles, and destroy many at the ships of the
Greeks."
But her answering, cloud-compelling Jove addressed: "Perverse one! thou
art always suspecting, nor do I escape thee. Nevertheless thou shalt
produce no effect at all, but thou shalt be farther from my heart: and
this will be more bitter to thee. But granted this be so, it appears to
be my pleasure.[60] But sit down in peace, and obey my mandate, lest as
many deities as are in Olympus avail thee not against me, I drawing
near,[61] when I shall lay my resistless hands upon thee."
   [Footnote 60: _I.e._, say that what you suspect is correct; well
   then, such is my will.]
   [Footnote 61: I prefer taking [Greek: ionth'] for [Greek: ionta],
   not for [Greek: ionte], as Buttmann wished.--See Anthon.]
Thus he spoke: but venerable, large-eyed Juno feared, and sat down
silent, having bent her heart to submission. But the heavenly gods
murmured throughout the palace of Jove. And the renowned artificer,
Vulcan, began to harangue them, doing kind offices to his beloved
mother, white-armed Juno:
