"At home? Oh, I can do as I like there, of course; only my father will
make a fool of himself, as usual. He is rapidly becoming a general
nuisance. I don't ever talk to him now, but I hold him in check, safe
enough. I swear if it had not been for my mother, I should have shown
him the way out, long ago. My mother is always crying, of course, and my
sister sulks. I had to tell them at last that I intended to be master of
my own destiny, and that I expect to be obeyed at home. At least, I gave
my sister to understand as much, and my mother was present."
"Well, I must say, I cannot understand it!" said the general, shrugging
his shoulders and dropping his hands. "You remember your mother, Nina
Alexandrovna, that day she came and sat here and groaned--and when I
asked her what was the matter, she says, 'Oh, it's such a _dishonour_
to us!' dishonour! Stuff and nonsense! I should like to know who can
reproach Nastasia Philipovna, or who can say a word of any kind against
her. Did she mean because Nastasia had been living with Totski? What
nonsense it is! You would not let her come near your daughters, says
Nina Alexandrovna. What next, I wonder? I don't see how she can fail
to--to understand--"
"Her own position?" prompted Gania. "She does understand. Don't be
annoyed with her. I have warned her not to meddle in other people's
affairs. However, although there's comparative peace at home at present,
the storm will break if anything is finally settled tonight."
The prince heard the whole of the foregoing conversation, as he sat at
the table, writing. He finished at last, and brought the result of his
labour to the general's desk.
"So this is Nastasia Philipovna," he said, looking attentively and
curiously at the portrait. "How wonderfully beautiful!" he immediately
added, with warmth. The picture was certainly that of an unusually
lovely woman. She was photographed in a black silk dress of simple
design, her hair was evidently dark and plainly arranged, her eyes were
deep and thoughtful, the expression of her face passionate, but proud.
She was rather thin, perhaps, and a little pale. Both Gania and the
general gazed at the prince in amazement.
"How do you know it's Nastasia Philipovna?" asked the general; "you
surely don't know her already, do you?"
"Yes, I do! I have only been one day in Russia, but I have heard of
the great beauty!" And the prince proceeded to narrate his meeting with
Rogojin in the train and the whole of the latter's story.
"There's news!" said the general in some excitement, after listening to
the story with engrossed attention.
"Oh, of course it's nothing but humbug!" cried Gania, a little
disturbed, however. "It's all humbug; the young merchant was pleased
to indulge in a little innocent recreation! I have heard something of
Rogojin!"
"Yes, so have I!" replied the general. "Nastasia Philipovna told us
all about the earrings that very day. But now it is quite a different
matter. You see the fellow really has a million of roubles, and he is
passionately in love. The whole story smells of passion, and we all
know what this class of gentry is capable of when infatuated. I am much
afraid of some disagreeable scandal, I am indeed!"
