“What’s the matter with it as a nugget?”  I demanded.
The remote, indwelling expression went out of his eyes as he boomed
“Why, its size.”
“It does seem large,” I admitted.  “But there’s no doubt it’s authentic.
The Australian Government would scarcely dare—”
“Large!” he interrupted, with a sniff and a sneer.
“Largest ever discovered—” I started on.
“Ever discovered!”  His dim eyes smouldered hotly as he proceeded.  “Do
you think that every lump of gold ever discovered has got into the
newspapers and encyclopedias?”
“Well,” I replied judicially, “if there’s one that hasn’t, I don’t see
how we’re to know about it.  If a really big nugget, or nugget-finder,
elects to blush unseen—”
“But it didn’t,” he broke in quickly.  “I saw it with my own eyes, and,
besides, I’m too tanned to blush anyway.  I’m a railroad man and I’ve
been in the tropics a lot.  Why, I used to be the colour of mahogany—real
old mahogany, and have been taken for a blue-eyed Spaniard more than
once—”
It was my turn to interrupt, and I did.
“Was that nugget bigger than those in there, Mr.—er—?”
“Jones, Julian Jones is my name.”
He dug into an inner pocket and produced an envelope addressed to such a
person, care of General Delivery, San Francisco; and I, in turn,
presented him with my card.
“Pleased to know you, sir,” he said, extending his hand, his voice
booming as if accustomed to loud noises or wide spaces.  “Of course I’ve
heard of you, seen your picture in the papers, and all that, and, though
I say it that shouldn’t, I want to say that I didn’t care a rap about
those articles you wrote on Mexico.  You’re wrong, all wrong.  You make
the mistake of all Gringos in thinking a Mexican is a white man.  He
ain’t.  None of them ain’t—Greasers, Spiggoties, Latin-Americans and all
the rest of the cattle.  Why, sir, they don’t think like we think, or
reason, or act.  Even their multiplication table is different.  You think
seven times seven is forty-nine; but not them.  They work it out
different.  And white isn’t white to them, either.  Let me give you an
example.  Buying coffee retail for house-keeping in one-pound or
ten-pound lots—”
“How big was that nugget you referred to?” I queried firmly.  “As big as
the biggest of those?”
“Bigger,” he said quietly.  “Bigger than the whole blamed exhibit of them
put together, and then some.”  He paused and regarded me with a steadfast
gaze.  “I don’t see no reason why I shouldn’t go into the matter with
you.  You’ve got a reputation a man ought to be able to trust, and I’ve
read you’ve done some tall skylarking yourself in out-of-the-way places.
I’ve been browsing around with an eye open for some one to go in with me
on the proposition.”
“You can trust me,” I said.
And here I am, blazing out into print with the whole story just as he
told it to me as we sat on a bench by the lagoon before the Palace of
Fine Arts with the cries of the sea gulls in our ears.  Well, he should
have kept his appointment with me.  But I anticipate.
