It was presently objected, that we could never make a canoe large enough
to pass the great ocean, which we were to go over to get to the coast
of Malabar; that it not only would not bear the sea, but it would never
bear the burden, for we were not only twenty-seven men of us, but had
a great deal of luggage with us, and must, for our provision, take in a
great deal more.
I never proposed to speak in their general consultations before, but
finding they were at some loss about what kind of vessel they should
make, and how to make it, and what would be fit for our use, and what
not, I told them I found they were at a full stop in their counsels of
every kind; that it was true we could never pretend to go over to Goa on
the coast of Malabar in a canoe, which though we could all get into
it, and that it would bear the sea well enough, yet would not hold our
provisions, and especially we could not put fresh water enough into it
for the voyage; and to make such an adventure would be nothing but mere
running into certain destruction, and yet that nevertheless I was for
making a canoe.
They answered, that they understood all I had said before well enough,
but what I meant by telling them first how dangerous and impossible
it was to make our escape in a canoe, and yet then to advise making a
canoe, that they could not understand.
To this I answered, that I conceived our business was not to attempt our
escape in a canoe, but that, as there were other vessels at sea besides
our ship, and that there were few nations that lived on the sea-shore
that were so barbarous, but that they went to sea in some boats or
other, our business was to cruise along the coast of the island, which
was very long, and to seize upon the first we could get that was better
than our own, and so from that to another, till perhaps we might at last
get a good ship to carry us wherever we pleased to go.
"Excellent advice," says one of them. "Admirable advice," says another.
"Yes, yes," says the third (which was the gunner), "the English dog has
given excellent advice; but it is just the way to bring us all to
the gallows. The rogue has given us devilish advice, indeed, to go
a-thieving, till from a little vessel we came to a great ship, and so we
shall turn downright pirates, the end of which is to be hanged."
"You may call us pirates," says another, "if you will, and if we fall
into bad hands, we may be used like pirates; but I care not for that,
I'll be a pirate, or anything, nay, I'll be hanged for a pirate rather
than starve here, therefore I think the advice is very good." And so
they cried all, "Let us have a canoe." The gunner, over-ruled by the
rest, submitted; but as we broke up the council, he came to me, takes
me by the hand, and, looking into the palm of my hand, and into my face
too, very gravely, "My lad," says he, "thou art born to do a world of
mischief; thou hast commenced pirate very young; but have a care of
the gallows, young man; have a care, I say, for thou wilt be an eminent
thief."
