As soon as breakfast was done, Willoughby disappeared over the vessel's
side, carrying a brown leather case, shouting over his shoulder that
every one was to mind and behave themselves, for he would be kept in
Lisbon doing business until five o'clock that afternoon.
At about that hour he reappeared, carrying his case, professing himself
tired, bothered, hungry, thirsty, cold, and in immediate need of his
tea. Rubbing his hands, he told them the adventures of the day: how he
had come upon poor old Jackson combing his moustache before the glass
in the office, little expecting his descent, had put him through such
a morning's work as seldom came his way; then treated him to a lunch of
champagne and ortolans; paid a call upon Mrs. Jackson, who was fatter
than ever, poor woman, but asked kindly after Rachel--and O Lord, little
Jackson had confessed to a confounded piece of weakness--well, well, no
harm was done, he supposed, but what was the use of his giving orders if
they were promptly disobeyed? He had said distinctly that he would take
no passengers on this trip. Here he began searching in his pockets and
eventually discovered a card, which he planked down on the table before
Rachel. On it she read, "Mr. and Mrs. Richard Dalloway, 23 Browne
Street, Mayfair."
"Mr. Richard Dalloway," continued Vinrace, "seems to be a gentleman who
thinks that because he was once a member of Parliament, and his wife's
the daughter of a peer, they can have what they like for the asking.
They got round poor little Jackson anyhow. Said they must have
passages--produced a letter from Lord Glenaway, asking me as a personal
favour--overruled any objections Jackson made (I don't believe they came
to much), and so there's nothing for it but to submit, I suppose."
But it was evident that for some reason or other Willoughby was quite
pleased to submit, although he made a show of growling.
The truth was that Mr. and Mrs. Dalloway had found themselves stranded
in Lisbon. They had been travelling on the Continent for some weeks,
chiefly with a view to broadening Mr. Dalloway's mind. Unable for a
season, by one of the accidents of political life, to serve his country
in Parliament, Mr. Dalloway was doing the best he could to serve it
out of Parliament. For that purpose the Latin countries did very well,
although the East, of course, would have done better.
"Expect to hear of me next in Petersburg or Teheran," he had said,
turning to wave farewell from the steps of the Travellers'. But a
disease had broken out in the East, there was cholera in Russia, and
he was heard of, not so romantically, in Lisbon. They had been through
France; he had stopped at manufacturing centres where, producing letters
of introduction, he had been shown over works, and noted facts in a
pocket-book. In Spain he and Mrs. Dalloway had mounted mules, for they
wished to understand how the peasants live. Are they ripe for rebellion,
for example? Mrs. Dalloway had then insisted upon a day or two at Madrid
with the pictures. Finally they arrived in Lisbon and spent six days
which, in a journal privately issued afterwards, they described as of
"unique interest." Richard had audiences with ministers, and foretold
a crisis at no distant date, "the foundations of government being
incurably corrupt. Yet how blame, etc."; while Clarissa inspected the
royal stables, and took several snapshots showing men now exiled and
windows now broken. Among other things she photographed Fielding's
grave, and let loose a small bird which some ruffian had trapped,
"because one hates to think of anything in a cage where English people
lie buried," the diary stated. Their tour was thoroughly unconventional,
and followed no meditated plan. The foreign correspondents of the
_Times_ decided their route as much as anything else. Mr. Dalloway
wished to look at certain guns, and was of opinion that the African
coast is far more unsettled than people at home were inclined to
believe. For these reasons they wanted a slow inquisitive kind of ship,
comfortable, for they were bad sailors, but not extravagant, which would
stop for a day or two at this port and at that, taking in coal while
the Dalloways saw things for themselves. Meanwhile they found themselves
stranded in Lisbon, unable for the moment to lay hands upon the precise
vessel they wanted. They heard of the _Euphrosyne_, but heard also that
she was primarily a cargo boat, and only took passengers by special
arrangement, her business being to carry dry goods to the Amazons, and
rubber home again. "By special arrangement," however, were words of high
encouragement to them, for they came of a class where almost everything
was specially arranged, or could be if necessary. On this occasion all
that Richard did was to write a note to Lord Glenaway, the head of the
line which bears his title; to call on poor old Jackson; to represent to
him how Mrs. Dalloway was so-and-so, and he had been something or other
else, and what they wanted was such and such a thing. It was done. They
parted with compliments and pleasure on both sides, and here, a
week later, came the boat rowing up to the ship in the dusk with the
Dalloways on board of it; in three minutes they were standing together
on the deck of the _Euphrosyne_. Their arrival, of course, created some
stir, and it was seen by several pairs of eyes that Mrs. Dalloway was
a tall slight woman, her body wrapped in furs, her head in veils, while
Mr. Dalloway appeared to be a middle-sized man of sturdy build, dressed
like a sportsman on an autumnal moor. Many solid leather bags of a
rich brown hue soon surrounded them, in addition to which Mr. Dalloway
carried a despatch box, and his wife a dressing-case suggestive of a
diamond necklace and bottles with silver tops.
