'Is the lady in England now, sir?' inquired Mr. Tupman, on whom the
description of her charms had produced a powerful impression.
'Dead, sir--dead,' said the stranger, applying to his right eye the
brief remnant of a very old cambric handkerchief. 'Never recovered the
stomach pump--undermined constitution--fell a victim.'
'And her father?' inquired the poetic Snodgrass.
'Remorse and misery,' replied the stranger. 'Sudden disappearance--talk
of the whole city--search made everywhere without success--public
fountain in the great square suddenly ceased playing--weeks elapsed--
still a stoppage--workmen employed to clean it--water drawn off--father-
in-law discovered sticking head first in the main pipe, with a full
confession in his right boot--took him out, and the fountain played away
again, as well as ever.'
'Will you allow me to note that little romance down, Sir?' said Mr.
Snodgrass, deeply affected.
'Certainly, Sir, certainly--fifty more if you like to hear 'em--strange
life mine--rather curious history--not extraordinary, but singular.'
In this strain, with an occasional glass of ale, by way of parenthesis,
when the coach changed horses, did the stranger proceed, until they
reached Rochester bridge, by which time the note-books, both of Mr.
Pickwick and Mr. Snodgrass, were completely filled with selections from
his adventures.
'Magnificent ruin!' said Mr. Augustus Snodgrass, with all the poetic
fervour that distinguished him, when they came in sight of the fine old
castle.
'What a study for an antiquarian!' were the very words which fell from
Mr. Pickwick's mouth, as he applied his telescope to his eye.
'Ah! fine place,' said the stranger, 'glorious pile--frowning walls--
tottering arches--dark nooks--crumbling staircases--old cathedral too--
earthy smell--pilgrims' feet wore away the old steps--little Saxon
doors--confessionals like money-takers' boxes at theatres--queer
customers those monks--popes, and lord treasurers, and all sorts of old
fellows, with great red faces, and broken noses, turning up every day--
buff jerkins too--match-locks--sarcophagus--fine place--old legends too-
-strange stories: capital;' and the stranger continued to soliloquise
until they reached the Bull Inn, in the High Street, where the coach
stopped.
'Do you remain here, Sir?' inquired Mr. Nathaniel Winkle.
'Here--not I--but you'd better--good house--nice beds--Wright's next
house, dear--very dear--half-a-crown in the bill if you look at the
waiter--charge you more if you dine at a friend's than they would if you
dined in the coffee-room--rum fellows--very.'
Mr. Winkle turned to Mr. Pickwick, and murmured a few words; a whisper
passed from Mr. Pickwick to Mr. Snodgrass, from Mr. Snodgrass to Mr.
Tupman, and nods of assent were exchanged. Mr. Pickwick addressed the
stranger.
'You rendered us a very important service this morning, sir,' said he,
'will you allow us to offer a slight mark of our gratitude by begging
the favour of your company at dinner?'
'Great pleasure--not presume to dictate, but broiled fowl and mushrooms-
-capital thing! What time?'
'Let me see,' replied Mr. Pickwick, referring to his watch, 'it is now
nearly three. Shall we say five?'
'Suit me excellently,' said the stranger, 'five precisely--till then--
care of yourselves;' and lifting the pinched-up hat a few inches from
his head, and carelessly replacing it very much on one side, the
stranger, with half the brown paper parcel sticking out of his pocket,
walked briskly up the yard, and turned into the High Street.
