‘What is this?’ said the last-named gentleman.  ‘Mr. Fish, will you have
the goodness to attend?’
Mr. Fish begged pardon, and taking the letter from Toby, handed it, with
great respect.
‘From Alderman Cute, Sir Joseph.’
‘Is this all?  Have you nothing else, Porter?’ inquired Sir Joseph.
Toby replied in the negative.
‘You have no bill or demand upon me—my name is Bowley, Sir Joseph
Bowley—of any kind from anybody, have you?’ said Sir Joseph.  ‘If you
have, present it.  There is a cheque-book by the side of Mr. Fish.  I
allow nothing to be carried into the New Year.  Every description of
account is settled in this house at the close of the old one.  So that if
death was to—to—’
‘To cut,’ suggested Mr. Fish.
‘To sever, sir,’ returned Sir Joseph, with great asperity, ‘the cord of
existence—my affairs would be found, I hope, in a state of preparation.’
‘My dear Sir Joseph!’ said the lady, who was greatly younger than the
gentleman.  ‘How shocking!’
‘My lady Bowley,’ returned Sir Joseph, floundering now and then, as in
the great depth of his observations, ‘at this season of the year we
should think of—of—ourselves.  We should look into our—our accounts.  We
should feel that every return of so eventful a period in human
transactions, involves a matter of deep moment between a man and his—and
his banker.’
Sir Joseph delivered these words as if he felt the full morality of what
he was saying; and desired that even Trotty should have an opportunity of
being improved by such discourse.  Possibly he had this end before him in
still forbearing to break the seal of the letter, and in telling Trotty
to wait where he was, a minute.
‘You were desiring Mr. Fish to say, my lady—’ observed Sir Joseph.
‘Mr. Fish has said that, I believe,’ returned his lady, glancing at the
letter.  ‘But, upon my word, Sir Joseph, I don’t think I can let it go
after all.  It is so very dear.’
‘What is dear?’ inquired Sir Joseph.
‘That Charity, my love.  They only allow two votes for a subscription of
five pounds.  Really monstrous!’
‘My lady Bowley,’ returned Sir Joseph, ‘you surprise me.  Is the luxury
of feeling in proportion to the number of votes; or is it, to a rightly
constituted mind, in proportion to the number of applicants, and the
wholesome state of mind to which their canvassing reduces them?  Is there
no excitement of the purest kind in having two votes to dispose of among
fifty people?’
‘Not to me, I acknowledge,’ replied the lady.  ‘It bores one.  Besides,
one can’t oblige one’s acquaintance.  But you are the Poor Man’s Friend,
you know, Sir Joseph.  You think otherwise.’
‘I _am_ the Poor Man’s Friend,’ observed Sir Joseph, glancing at the poor
man present.  ‘As such I may be taunted.  As such I have been taunted.
But I ask no other title.’
‘Bless him for a noble gentleman!’ thought Trotty.
‘I don’t agree with Cute here, for instance,’ said Sir Joseph, holding
out the letter.  ‘I don’t agree with the Filer party.  I don’t agree with
any party.  My friend the Poor Man, has no business with anything of that
sort, and nothing of that sort has any business with him.  My friend the
Poor Man, in my district, is my business.  No man or body of men has any
right to interfere between my friend and me.  That is the ground I take.
I assume a—a paternal character towards my friend.  I say, “My good
fellow, I will treat you paternally.”’
