'Aye, my brothers, Jelchs is all-powerful! Did he not bring
heaven-borne fire that we might be warm? Did he not draw the sun, moon,
and stars, from their holes that we might see? Did he not teach us that
we might fight the Spirits of Famine and of Frost? But now Jelchs is
angry with his children, and they are grown to a handful, and he will
not help.
'For they have forgotten him, and done evil things, and trod bad
trails, and taken his enemies into their lodges to sit by their fires.
And the Raven is sorrowful at the wickedness of his children; but when
they shall rise up and show they have come back, he will come out of
the darkness to aid them. O brothers! the Fire-Bringer has whispered
messages to thy Shaman; the same shall ye hear. Let the young men take
the young women to their lodges; let them fly at the throat of the
Wolf; let them be undying in their enmity! Then shall their women
become fruitful and they shall multiply into a mighty people! And the
Raven shall lead great tribes of their fathers and their fathers'
fathers from out of the North; and they shall beat back the Wolves till
they are as last year's campfires; and they shall again come to rule
over all the land! 'Tis the message of Jelchs, the Raven.' This
foreshadowing of the Messiah's coming brought a hoarse howl from the
Sticks as they leaped to their feet. Mackenzie slipped the thumbs of
his mittens and waited. There was a clamor for the 'Fox,' not to be
stilled till one of the young men stepped forward to speak.
'Brothers! The Shaman has spoken wisely. The Wolves have taken our
women, and our men are childless. We are grown to a handful. The Wolves
have taken our warm furs and given for them evil spirits which dwell in
bottles, and clothes which come not from the beaver or the lynx, but
are made from the grass.
And they are not warm, and our men die of strange sicknesses. I, the
Fox, have taken no woman to wife; and why? Twice have the maidens which
pleased me gone to the camps of the Wolf. Even now have I laid by skins
of the beaver, of the moose, of the cariboo, that I might win favor in
the eyes of Thling-Tinneh, that I might marry Zarinska, his daughter.
Even now are her snow-shoes bound to her feet, ready to break trail for
the dogs of the Wolf. Nor do I speak for myself alone.
As I have done, so has the Bear. He, too, had fain been the father of
her children, and many skins has he cured thereto. I speak for all the
young men who know not wives. The Wolves are ever hungry. Always do
they take the choice meat at the killing. To the Ravens are left the
leavings.
'There is Gugkla,' he cried, brutally pointing out one of the women,
who was a cripple.
