"No," replied Bob Sawyer; "can't afford expensive luxuries."
"Nonsense!" said Allen.
"Can't indeed," rejoined Bob Sawyer. "I wouldn't mind a brain, but I
couldn't stand a whole head."
"Hush, hush, gentlemen, pray," said Mr. Pickwick. "I hear the ladies."
As Mr. Pickwick spoke, the ladies, gallantly escorted by Messrs.
Snodgrass, Winkle, and Tupman, returned from an early walk.
"Why, Ben!" said Arabella, in a tone which expressed more surprise than
pleasure at the sight of her brother.
"Come to take you home to-morrow," replied Benjamin.
Mr. Winkle turned pale.
"Don't you see Bob Sawyer, Arabella?" inquired Mr. Benjamin Allen,
somewhat reproachfully. Arabella gracefully held out her hand, in
acknowledgment of Bob Sawyer's presence. A thrill of hatred struck to
Mr. Winkle's heart, as Bob Sawyer inflicted on the proffered hand a
perceptible squeeze.
"Ben, dear!" said Arabella, blushing; "have--have--you been introduced
to Mr. Winkle?"
"I have not been, but I shall be very happy to be, Arabella," replied
her brother, gravely. Here Mr. Allen bowed grimly to Mr. Winkle, while
Mr. Winkle and Mr. Bob Sawyer glanced mutual distrust out of the
corners of their eyes.
The arrival of the two new visitors, and the consequent check upon Mr.
Winkle and the young lady with the fur round her boots, would in all
probability have proved a very unpleasant interruption to the hilarity
of the party, had not the cheerfulness of Mr. Pickwick, and the good
humour of the host, been exerted to the very utmost for the common
weal. Mr. Winkle gradually insinuated himself into the good graces of
Mr. Benjamin Allen, and even joined in a friendly conversation with
Mr. Bob Sawyer; who, enlivened with the brandy, and the breakfast, and
the talking, gradually ripened into a state of extreme facetiousness,
and related with much glee an agreeable anecdote, about the removal of
a tumour on some gentleman's head: which he illustrated by means of
an oyster-knife and a half-quartern loaf, to the great edification of
the assembled company. Then, the whole train went to church, where Mr.
Benjamin Allen fell fast asleep; while Mr. Bob Sawyer abstracted his
thoughts from worldly matters, by the ingenious process of carving his
name on the seat of the pew, in corpulent letters of four inches long.
"Now," said Wardle, after a substantial lunch, with the agreeable items
of strong beer and cherry-brandy, had been done ample justice to; "what
say you to an hour on the ice? We shall have plenty of time."
"Capital!" said Mr. Benjamin Allen.
"Prime!" ejaculated Mr. Bob Sawyer.
"You skate, of course, Winkle?" said Wardle.
"Ye-yes, oh yes," replied Mr. Winkle. "I--I--am _rather_ out of
practice."
"Oh, _do_ skate, Mr. Winkle," said Arabella. "I like to see it so
much."
"Oh, it is _so_ graceful," said another young lady.
A third young lady said it was elegant, and a fourth expressed her
opinion that it was "swan-like."
"I should be very happy, I'm sure," said Mr. Winkle, reddening; "but I
have no skates."
This objection was at once overruled. Trundle had a couple of pair, and
the fat boy announced that there were half a dozen more down-stairs:
whereat Mr. Winkle expressed exquisite delight, and looked exquisitely
uncomfortable.
