That gentleman was fast asleep; the restoration was soon made. The
stranger was extremely jocose; and Mr. Tracy Tupman, being quite
bewildered with wine, negus, lights, and ladies, thought the whole
affair was an exquisite joke. His new friend departed; and, after
experiencing some slight difficulty in finding the orifice in his
nightcap, originally intended for the reception of his head, and finally
overturning his candlestick in his struggles to put it on, Mr. Tracy
Tupman managed to get into bed by a series of complicated evolutions,
and shortly afterwards sank into repose.
Seven o'clock had hardly ceased striking on the following morning, when
Mr. Pickwick's comprehensive mind was aroused from the state of
unconsciousness, in which slumber had plunged it, by a loud knocking at
his chamber door.
'Who's there?' said Mr. Pickwick, starting up in bed.
'Boots, sir.'
'What do you want?'
'Please, sir, can you tell me which gentleman of your party wears a
bright blue dress-coat, with a gilt button with "P. C." on it?'
'It's been given out to brush,' thought Mr. Pickwick, 'and the man has
forgotten whom it belongs to.'
Mr. Winkle,' he called out, 'next room but two, on the right hand.'
'Thank'ee, sir,' said the Boots, and away he went.
'What's the matter?' cried Mr. Tupman, as a loud knocking at his door
roused him from his oblivious repose.
'Can I speak to Mr. Winkle, sir?' replied Boots from the outside.
'Winkle--Winkle!' shouted Mr. Tupman, calling into the inner room.
'Hollo!' replied a faint voice from within the bed-clothes.
'You're wanted--some one at the door;' and, having exerted himself to
articulate thus much, Mr. Tracy Tupman turned round and fell fast asleep
again.
'Wanted!' said Mr. Winkle, hastily jumping out of bed, and putting on a
few articles of clothing; 'wanted! at this distance from town--who on
earth can want me?'
'Gentleman in the coffee-room, sir,' replied the Boots, as Mr. Winkle
opened the door and confronted him; 'gentleman says he'll not detain you
a moment, Sir, but he can take no denial.'
'Very odd!' said Mr. Winkle; 'I'll be down directly.'
He hurriedly wrapped himself in a travelling-shawl and dressing-gown,
and proceeded downstairs. An old woman and a couple of waiters were
cleaning the coffee-room, and an officer in undress uniform was looking
out of the window. He turned round as Mr. Winkle entered, and made a
stiff inclination of the head. Having ordered the attendants to retire,
and closed the door very carefully, he said, 'Mr. Winkle, I presume?'
'My name is Winkle, sir.'
'You will not be surprised, sir, when I inform you that I have called
here this morning on behalf of my friend, Doctor Slammer, of the 97th.'
'Doctor Slammer!' said Mr. Winkle.
'Doctor Slammer. He begged me to express his opinion that your conduct
of last evening was of a description which no gentleman could endure;
and' (he added) 'which no one gentleman would pursue towards another.'
Mr. Winkle's astonishment was too real, and too evident, to escape the
observation of Doctor Slammer's friend; he therefore proceeded--
