FOOTNOTES:
[61] +Dios hyphorbos+.--The swineherd's was therefore in those days, and
in that country, an occupation honourable as well as useful. Barnes deems
the epithet +dios+ significant of his noble birth. Vide Clarke in loco.
[62] It may be proper to suggest that Ulysses was lord of part of the
continent opposite to Ithaca--viz.--of the peninsula Nericus or Leuca,
which afterward became an island, and is now called Santa Maura. F.
[63] Mercury.
[64] +Theos+--without a relative, and consequently signifying GOD in the
abstract, is not unfrequently found in Homer, though fearing to give
offence to serious minds unacquainted with the original, I have not
always given it that force in the translation. But here, the sentiment is
such as fixes the sense intended by the author with a precision that
leaves no option. It is observable too, that +dynatai gar apanta+--is an
ascription of power such as the poet never makes to his Jupiter.
BOOK XV
ARGUMENT
Telemachus, admonished by Minerva, takes leave of Menelaus, but ere he
sails, is accosted by Theoclymenos, a prophet of Argos, whom at his
earnest request he takes on board. In the meantime Eumaeus relates to
Ulysses the means by which he came to Ithaca. Telemachus arriving there,
gives orders for the return of his bark to the city, and repairs himself
to Eumaeus.
    Meantime to Lacedaemon's spacious vale
    Minerva went, that she might summon thence
    Ulysses' glorious son to his own home.
    Arrived, she found Telemachus reposed
    And Nestor's son beneath the vestibule
    Of Menelaus, mighty Chief; she saw
    Pisistratus in bands of gentle sleep
    Fast-bound, but not Telemachus; his mind
    No rest enjoy'd, by filial cares disturb'd
    Amid the silent night, when, drawing near                         10
    To his couch side, the Goddess thus began.
      Thou canst no longer prudently remain
    A wand'rer here, Telemachus! thy home
    Abandon'd, and those haughty suitors left
    Within thy walls; fear lest, partition made
    Of thy possessions, they devour the whole,
    And in the end thy voyage bootless prove.
    Delay not; from brave Menelaus ask
    Dismission hence, that thou may'st find at home
    Thy spotless mother, whom her brethren urge                       20
    And her own father even now to wed
    Eurymachus, in gifts and in amount
    Of proffer'd dow'r superior to them all.
    Some treasure, else, shall haply from thy house
    Be taken, such as thou wilt grudge to spare.
    For well thou know'st how woman is disposed;
    Her whole anxiety is to encrease
    His substance whom she weds; no care hath she
    Of her first children, or remembers more
    The buried husband of her virgin choice.                          30
    Returning then, to her of all thy train
    Whom thou shalt most approve, the charge commit
    Of thy concerns domestic, till the Gods
    Themselves shall guide thee to a noble wife.
    Hear also this, and mark it. In the frith
    Samos the rude, and Ithaca between,
    The chief of all her suitors thy return
    In vigilant ambush wait, with strong desire
    To slay thee, ere thou reach thy native shore,
    But shall not, as I judge, till the earth hide                    40
    Many a lewd reveller at thy expence.
    Yet, steer thy galley from those isles afar,
    And voyage make by night; some guardian God
    Shall save thee, and shall send thee prosp'rous gales.
    Then, soon as thou attain'st the nearest shore
    Of Ithaca, dispatching to the town
    Thy bark with all thy people, seek at once
    The swine-herd; for Eumaeus is thy friend.
    There sleep, and send him forth into the town
    With tidings to Penelope, that safe                               50
    Thou art restored from Pylus home again.
      She said, and sought th' Olympian heights sublime.
    Then, with his heel shaking him, he awoke
    The son of Nestor, whom he thus address'd.
      Rise, Nestor's son, Pisistratus! lead forth
    The steeds, and yoke them. We must now depart.
      To whom the son of Nestor thus replied.
    Telemachus! what haste soe'er we feel,
    We can by no means prudently attempt
    To drive by night, and soon it will be dawn.                      60
    Stay, therefore, till the Hero, Atreus' son,
    Spear-practis'd Menelaus shall his gifts
    Place in the chariot, and with kind farewell
    Dismiss thee; for the guest in mem'ry holds
    Through life, the host who treats him as a friend.
      Scarce had he spoken, when the golden dawn
    Appearing, Menelaus, from the side
    Of beauteous Helen ris'n, their bed approach'd,
    Whose coming when Telemachus perceived,
    Cloathing himself hastily in his vest                             70
    Magnificent, and o'er his shoulders broad
    Casting his graceful mantle, at the door
    He met the Hero, whom he thus address'd.
      Atrides, Menelaus, Chief renown'd!
    Dismiss me hence to Ithaca again,
    My native isle, for I desire to go.
      Him answer'd Menelaus famed in arms.
    Telemachus! I will not long delay
    Thy wish'd return. I disapprove alike
    The host whose assiduity extreme                                  80
    Distresses, and whose negligence offends;
    The middle course is best; alike we err,
    Him thrusting forth whose wish is to remain,
    And hind'ring the impatient to depart.
    This only is true kindness--To regale
    The present guest, and speed him when he would.
    Yet stay, till thou shalt see my splendid gifts
    Placed in thy chariot, and till I command
    My women from our present stores to spread
    The table with a plentiful repast.                                90
    For both the honour of the guest demands,
    And his convenience also, that he eat
    Sufficient, ent'ring on a length of road.
    But if through Hellas thou wilt take thy way
    And traverse Argos, I will, then, myself
    Attend thee; thou shalt journey with my steeds
    Beneath thy yoke, and I will be thy guide
    To many a city, whence we shall not go
    Ungratified, but shall in each receive
    Some gift at least, tripod, or charger bright,                   100
    Or golden chalice, or a pair of mules.
      To whom Telemachus, discrete, replied.
    Atrides, Menelaus, Chief renown'd!
    I would at once depart, (for guardian none
    Of my possessions have I left behind)
    Lest, while I seek my father, I be lost
    Myself, or lose what I should grudge to spare.
      Which when the valiant Menelaus heard,
    He bade his spouse and maidens spread the board
    At once with remnants of the last regale.                        110
    Then Eteoneus came, Boetheus' son
    Newly aris'n, for nigh at hand he dwelt,
    Whom Menelaus bade kindle the fire
    By which to dress their food, and he obey'd.
    He next, himself his fragrant chamber sought,
    Not sole, but by his spouse and by his son
    Attended, Megapenthes. There arrived
    Where all his treasures lay, Atrides, first,
    Took forth, himself, a goblet, then consign'd
    To his son's hand an argent beaker bright.                       120
    Meantime, beside her coffers Helen stood
    Where lay her variegated robes, fair works
    Of her own hand. Producing one, in size
    And in magnificence the chief, a star
    For splendour, and the lowest placed of all,
    Loveliest of her sex, she bore it thence.
    Then, all proceeding through the house, they sought
    Telemachus again, whom reaching, thus
    The Hero of the golden locks began.
      May Jove the Thunderer, dread Juno's mate,                     130
    Grant thee, Telemachus! such voyage home
    As thy own heart desires! accept from all
    My stores selected as the richest far
    And noblest gift for finish'd beauty--This.
    I give thee wrought elaborate a cup,
    Itself all silver, bound with lip of gold.
    It is the work of Vulcan, which to me
    The Hero Phaedimus imparted, King
    Of the Sidonians, when, on my return,
    Beneath his roof I lodg'd. I make it thine.                      140
      So saying, the Hero, Atreus' son, the cup
    Placed in his hands, and Megapenthes set
    Before him, next, the argent beaker bright;
    But lovely Helen drawing nigh, the robe
    Presented to him, whom she thus address'd.
      I also give thee, oh my son, a gift,
    Which seeing, thou shalt think on her whose hands
    Wrought it; a present on thy nuptial day
    For thy fair spouse; meantime, repose it safe
    In thy own mother's keeping. Now, farewell!                      150
    Prosp'rous and happy be thy voyage home!
      She ceas'd, and gave it to him, who the gift
    Accepted glad, and in the chariot-chest
    Pisistratus the Hero all disposed,
    Admiring them the while. They, following, next,
    The Hero Menelaus to his hall
    Each on his couch or on his throne reposed.
    A maiden, then, with golden ewer charged
    And silver bowl, pour'd water on their hands,
    And spread the polish'd table, which with food                   160
    Various, selected from her present stores,
    The mistress of the household charge supplied.
    Boetheus' son stood carver, and to each
    His portion gave, while Megapenthes, son
    Of glorious Menelaus, serv'd the cup.
    Then, all with outstretch'd hands the feast assail'd,
    And when nor hunger more nor thirst of wine
    They felt, Telemachus and Nestor's son
    Yoked the swift steeds, and, taking each his seat
    In the resplendent chariot, drove at once                        170
    Right through the sounding portico abroad.
    But Menelaus, Hero amber-hair'd,
    A golden cup bearing with richest wine
    Replete in his right hand, follow'd them forth,
    That not without libation first perform'd
    They might depart; he stood before the steeds,
    And drinking first, thus, courteous, them bespake.
      Health to you both, young friends! and from my lips
    Like greeting bear to Nestor, royal Chief,
    For he was ever as a father kind                                 180
    To me, while the Achaians warr'd at Troy.
      To whom Telemachus discrete replied.
    And doubtless, so we will; at our return
    We will report to him, illustrious Prince!
    Thy ev'ry word. And oh, I would to heav'n
    That reaching Ithaca, I might at home
    Ulysses hail as sure, as I shall hence
    Depart, with all benevolence by thee
    Treated, and rich in many a noble gift.
      While thus he spake, on his right hand appear'd                190
    An eagle; in his talons pounced he bore
    A white-plumed goose domestic, newly ta'en
    From the house-court. Ran females all and males
    Clamorous after him; but he the steeds
    Approaching on the right, sprang into air.
    That sight rejoicing and with hearts reviv'd
    They view'd, and thus Pisistratus his speech
    Amid them all to Menelaus turn'd.
      Now, Menelaus, think, illustrious Chief!
    If us, this omen, or thyself regard.                             200
      While warlike Menelaus musing stood
    What answer fit to frame, Helen meantime,
    His spouse long-stoled preventing him, began.
      Hear me; for I will answer as the Gods
    Teach me, and as I think shall come to pass.
    As he, descending from his place of birth
    The mountains, caught our pamper'd goose away,
    So shall Ulysses, after many woes
    And wand'rings to his home restored, avenge
    His wrongs, or even now is at his home                           210
    For all those suitors sowing seeds of woe.
      To whom Telemachus, discrete, replied.
    Oh grant it Jove, Juno's high-thund'ring mate!
    So will I, there arrived, with vow and pray'r
    Thee worship, as thou wert, thyself, divine.
      He said, and lash'd the coursers; fiery they
    And fleet, sprang through the city to the plain.
    All day the yoke on either side they shook,
    Journeying swift; and now the setting sun
    To gloomy evening had resign'd the roads,                        220
    When they to Pherae came, and in the house
    Of good Diocles slept, their lib'ral host,
    Whose sire Orsilochus from Alpheus sprang.
    But when Aurora, daughter of the Dawn,
    Look'd rosy from the East, yoking their steeds,
    They in the sumptuous chariot sat again.
    Forth through the vestibule they drove, and through
    The sounding portico, when Nestor's son
    Plied brisk the scourge, and willing flew the steeds.
    Thus whirl'd along, soon they approach'd the gates               230
    Of Pylus, when Telemachus, his speech
    Turning to his companion, thus began.
      How, son of Nestor! shall I win from thee
    Not promise only, but performance kind
    Of my request? we are not bound alone
    To friendship by the friendship of our sires,
    But by equality of years, and this
    Our journey shall unite us still the more.
    Bear me not, I intreat thee, noble friend!
    Beyond the ship, but drop me at her side,                        240
    Lest ancient Nestor, though against my will,
    Detain me in his palace through desire
    To feast me, for I dread the least delay.
      He spake; then mused Pisistratus how best
    He might effect the wishes of his friend,
    And thus at length resolved; turning his steeds
    With sudden deviation to the shore
    He sought the bark, and placing in the stern
    Both gold and raiment, the illustrious gifts
    Of Menelaus, thus, in accents wing'd                             250
    With ardour, urged Telemachus away.
      Dispatch, embark, summon thy crew on board,
    Ere my arrival notice give of thine
    To the old King; for vehement I know
    His temper, neither will he let thee hence,
    But, hasting hither, will himself enforce
    Thy longer stay, that thou may'st not depart
    Ungifted; nought will fire his anger more.
      So saying, he to the Pylian city urged
    His steeds bright-maned, and at the palace-gate                  260
    Arrived of Nestor speedily; meantime
    Telemachus exhorted thus his crew.
      My gallant friends! set all your tackle, climb
    The sable bark, for I would now return.
      He spake; they heard him gladly, and at once
    All fill'd the benches. While his voyage he
    Thus expedited, and beside the stern
    To Pallas sacrifice perform'd and pray'd,
    A stranger, born remote, who had escaped
    From Argos, fugitive for blood, a seer                           270
    And of Melampus' progeny, approach'd.
    Melampus, in old time, in Pylus dwelt,
    Mother of flocks, alike for wealth renown'd
    And the magnificence of his abode.
    He, flying from the far-famed Pylian King,
    The mighty Neleus[65], migrated at length
    Into another land, whose wealth, the while,
    Neleus by force possess'd a year complete.
    Meantime, Melampus in the house endured
    Of Phylacus imprisonment and woe,                                280
    And burn'd with wrath for Neleus' daughter sake
    By fell Erynnis kindled in his heart.
    But, 'scaping death, he drove the lowing beeves
    From Phylace to Pylus, well avenged
    His num'rous injuries at Neleus' hands
    Sustain'd, and gave into his brother's arms
    King Neleus' daughter fair, the promis'd bride.
    To Argos steed-renown'd he journey'd next,
    There destin'd to inhabit and to rule
    Multitudes of Achaians. In that land                             290
    He married, built a palace, and became
    Father of two brave sons, Antiphates
    And Mantius; to Antiphates was born
    The brave Oicleus; from Oicleus sprang
    Amphiaraues, demagogue renown'd,
    Whom with all tenderness, and as a friend
    Alike the Thund'rer and Apollo prized;
    Yet reach'd he not the bounds of hoary age.
    But by his mercenary consort's arts[66]
    Persuaded, met his destiny at Thebes.                            300
    He 'gat Alcmaeon and Amphilocus.
    Mantius was also father of two sons,
    Clytus and Polyphides. Clytus pass'd
    From earth to heav'n, and dwells among the Gods,
    Stol'n by Aurora for his beauty's sake.
    But (brave Amphiaraues once deceased)
    Phoebus exalted Polyphides far
    Above all others in the prophet's part.
    He, anger'd by his father, roam'd away
    To Hyperesia, where he dwelt renown'd                            310
    Throughout all lands the oracle of all.
      His son, named Theoclymenus, was he
    Who now approach'd; he found Telemachus
    Libation off'ring in his bark, and pray'r,
    And in wing'd accents ardent him address'd.
      Ah, friend! since sacrificing in this place
    I find thee, by these sacred rites and those
    Whom thou ador'st, and by thy own dear life,
    And by the lives of these thy mariners
    I beg true answer; hide not what I ask.                          320
    Who art thou? whence? where born? and sprung from whom?
      To whom Telemachus, discrete, replied.
    I will inform thee, stranger! and will solve
    Thy questions with much truth. I am by birth
    Ithacan, and Ulysses was my sire.
    But he hath perish'd by a woeful death,
    And I, believing it, with these have plow'd
    The ocean hither, int'rested to learn
    A father's fate long absent from his home.
      Then answer'd godlike Theoclymenus.                            330
    I also am a wand'rer, having slain
    A man of my own tribe; brethren and friends
    Num'rous had he in Argos steed-renown'd,
    And pow'rful are the Achaians dwelling there.
    From them, through terrour of impending death,
    I fly, a banish'd man henceforth for ever.
    Ah save a suppliant fugitive! lest death
    O'ertake me, for I doubt not their pursuit.
      Whom thus Telemachus answer'd discrete.
    I shall not, be assured, since thou desir'st                     340
    To join me, chace thee from my bark away.
    Follow me, therefore, and with us partake,
    In Ithaca, what best the land affords.
      So saying, he at the stranger's hand received
    His spear, which on the deck he lay'd, then climb'd
    Himself the bark, and, seated in the stern,
    At his own side placed Theoclymenus.
    They cast the hawsers loose; then with loud voice
    Telemachus exhorted all to hand
    The tackle, whom the sailors prompt obey'd.                      350
    The tall mast heaving, in its socket deep
    They lodg'd it, and its cordage braced secure,
    Then, straining at the halyards, hoised the sail.
    Fair wind, and blowing fresh through aether pure
    Minerva sent them, that the bark might run
    Her nimblest course through all the briny way.
    Now sank the sun, and dusky ev'ning dimm'd
    The waves, when, driven by propitious Jove,
    His bark stood right for Pherae; thence she stretch'd
    To sacred Elis where the Epeans rule,                            360
    And through the sharp Echinades he next
    Steer'd her, uncertain whether fate ordain'd
    His life or death, surprizal or escape.
      Meantime Ulysses and the swine-herd ate
    Their cottage-mess, and the assistant swains
    Theirs also; and when hunger now and thirst
    Had ceased in all, Ulysses thus began,
    Proving the swine-herd, whether friendly still,
    And anxious for his good, he would intreat
    His stay, or thence hasten him to the town.                      370
      Eumaeus, and all ye his servants, hear!
    It is my purpose, lest I wear thee out,
    Thee and thy friends, to seek at early dawn
    The city, there to beg--But give me first
    Needful instructions, and a trusty guide
    Who may conduct me thither; there my task
    Must be to roam the streets; some hand humane
    Perchance shall give me a small pittance there,
    A little bread, and a few drops to drink.
    Ulysses' palace I shall also seek,                               380
    And to discrete Penelope report
    My tidings; neither shall I fail to mix
    With those imperious suitors, who, themselves
    Full-fed, may spare perhaps some boon to me.
    Me shall they find, in whatsoe'er they wish
    Their ready servitor, for (understand
    And mark me well) the herald of the skies,
    Hermes, from whom all actions of mankind
    Their grace receive and polish, is my friend,
    So that in menial offices I fear                                 390
    No rival, whether I be called to heap
    The hearth with fuel, or dry wood to cleave,
    To roast, to carve, or to distribute wine,
    As oft the poor are wont who serve the great.
      To whom, Eumaeus! at those words displeased,
    Thou didst reply. Gods! how could such a thought
    Possess thee, stranger? surely thy resolve
    Is altogether fixt to perish there,
    If thou indeed hast purposed with that throng
    To mix, whose riot and outrageous acts                           400
    Of violence echo through the vault of heav'n.
    None, such as thou, serve _them_; their servitors
    Are youths well-cloak'd, well-vested; sleek their heads,
    And smug their countenances; such alone
    Are their attendants, and the polish'd boards
    Groan overcharg'd with bread, with flesh, with wine.
    Rest here content; for neither me nor these
    Thou weariest aught, and when Ulysses' son
    Shall come, he will with vest and mantle fair
    Cloath thee, and send thee whither most thou would'st.           410
      To whom Ulysses, toil-inured.
    I wish thee, O Eumaeus! dear to Jove
    As thou art dear to me, for this reprieve
    Vouchsafed me kind, from wand'ring and from woe!
    No worse condition is of mortal man
    Than his who wanders; for the poor man, driv'n
    By woe and by misfortune homeless forth,
    A thousand mis'ries, day by day, endures.
    Since thou detain'st me, then, and bidd'st me wait
    His coming, tell me if the father still                          420
    Of famed Ulysses live, whom, going hence,
    He left so nearly on the verge of life?
    And lives his mother? or have both deceased
    Already, and descended to the shades?
      To whom the master swine-herd thus replied.
    I will inform thee, and with strictest truth,
    Of all that thou hast ask'd. Laertes lives,
    But supplication off'ring to the Gods
    Ceaseless, to free him from a weary life,
    So deeply his long-absent son he mourns,                         430
    And the dear consort of his early youth,
    Whose death is his chief sorrow, and hath brought
    Old age on him, or ere its date arrived.
    She died of sorrow for her glorious son,
    And died deplorably;[67] may never friend
    Of mine, or benefactor die as she!
    While yet she liv'd, dejected as she was,
    I found it yet some solace to converse
    With her, who rear'd me in my childish days,
    Together with her lovely youngest-born                           440
    The Princess Ctimena; for side by side
    We grew, and I, scarce honour'd less than she.
    But soon as our delightful prime we both
    Attain'd, to Samos her they sent, a bride,
    And were requited with rich dow'r; but me
    Cloath'd handsomely with tunic and with vest,
    And with fair sandals furnish'd, to the field
    She order'd forth, yet loved me still the more.
    I miss her kindness now; but gracious heav'n
    Prospers the work on which I here attend;                        450
    Hence have I food, and hence I drink, and hence
    Refresh, sometimes, a worthy guest like thee.
    But kindness none experience I, or can,
    From fair Penelope (my mistress now)
    In word or action, so is the house curs'd
    With that lewd throng. Glad would the servants be
    Might they approach their mistress, and receive
    Advice from her; glad too to eat and drink,
    And somewhat bear each to his rural home,
    For perquisites are ev'ry servant's joy.                         460
      Then answer thus, Ulysses wise return'd.
    Alas! good swain, Eumaeus, how remote
    From friends and country wast thou forced to roam
    Ev'n in thy infancy! But tell me true.
    The city where thy parents dwelt, did foes
    Pillage it? or did else some hostile band
    Surprizing thee alone, on herd or flock
    Attendant, bear thee with them o'er the Deep,
    And sell thee at this Hero's house, who pay'd
    Doubtless for _thee_ no sordid price or small?                   470
      To whom the master swine-herd in reply.
    Stranger! since thou art curious to be told
    My story, silent listen, and thy wine
    At leisure quaff. The nights are longest now,
    And such as time for sleep afford, and time
    For pleasant conf'rence; neither were it good
    That thou should'st to thy couch before thy hour,
    Since even sleep is hurtful, in excess.
    Whoever here is weary, and desires
    Early repose, let him depart to rest,                            480
    And, at the peep of day, when he hath fed
    Sufficiently, drive forth my master's herd;
    But we with wine and a well-furnish'd board
    Supplied, will solace mutually derive
    From recollection of our sufferings past;
    For who hath much endured, and wander'd far,
    Finds the recital ev'n of sorrow sweet.
    Now hear thy question satisfied; attend!
    There is an island (thou hast heard, perchance,
    Of such an isle) named Syria;[68] it is placed                   490
    Above Ortigia, and a dial owns[69]
    True to the tropic changes of the year.
    No great extent she boasts, yet is she rich
    In cattle and in flocks, in wheat and wine.
    No famine knows that people, or disease
    Noisome, of all that elsewhere seize the race
    Of miserable man; but when old age
    Steals on the citizens, Apollo, arm'd
    With silver bow and bright Diana come,
    Whose gentle shafts dismiss them soon to rest.                   500
    Two cities share between them all the isle,
    And both were subject to my father's sway
    Ctesius Ormenides, a godlike Chief.
    It chanced that from Phoenicia, famed for skill
    In arts marine, a vessel thither came
    By sharpers mann'd, and laden deep with toys.
    Now, in my father's family abode
    A fair Phoenician, tall, full-sized, and skill'd
    In works of elegance, whom they beguiled.
    While she wash'd linen on the beach, beside                      510
    The ship, a certain mariner of those
    Seduced her; for all women, ev'n the wise
    And sober, feeble prove by love assail'd.
    Who was she, he enquired, and whence? nor she
    Scrupled to tell at once her father's home.
      I am of Sidon,[70] famous for her works
    In brass and steel; daughter of Arybas,
    Who rolls in affluence; Taphian pirates thence
    Stole me returning from the field, from whom
    This Chief procured me at no little cost.                        520
      Then answer thus her paramour return'd.
    Wilt thou not hence to Sidon in our ship,
    That thou may'st once more visit the abode
    Of thy own wealthy parents, and themselves?
    For still they live, and still are wealthy deem'd.
      To whom the woman. Even that might be,
    Would ye, ye seamen, by a solemn oath
    Assure me of a safe conveyance home.
      Then sware the mariners as she required,
    And, when their oath was ended, thus again                       530
    The woman of Phoenicia them bespake.
      Now, silence! no man, henceforth, of you all
    Accost me, though he meet me on the road,
    Or at yon fountain; lest some tattler run
    With tidings home to my old master's ear,
    Who, with suspicion touch'd, may _me_ confine
    In cruel bonds, and death contrive for _you_.
    But be ye close; purchase your stores in haste;
    And when your vessel shall be freighted full,
    Quick send me notice, for I mean to bring                        540
    What gold soever opportune I find,
    And will my passage cheerfully defray
    With still another moveable. I nurse
    The good man's son, an urchin shrewd, of age
    To scamper at my side; him will I bring,
    Whom at some foreign market ye shall prove
    Saleable at what price soe'er ye will.
      So saying, she to my father's house return'd.
    They, there abiding the whole year, their ship
    With purchased goods freighted of ev'ry kind,                    550
    And when, her lading now complete, she lay
    For sea prepared, their messenger arrived
    To summon down the woman to the shore.
    A mariner of theirs, subtle and shrewd,
    Then, ent'ring at my father's gate, produced
    A splendid collar, gold with amber strung.
    My mother (then at home) with all her maids
    Handling and gazing on it with delight,
    Proposed to purchase it, and he the nod
    Significant, gave unobserv'd, the while,                         560
    To the Phoenician woman, and return'd.
    She, thus informed, leading me by the hand
    Went forth, and finding in the vestibule
    The cups and tables which my father's guests
    Had used, (but they were to the forum gone
    For converse with their friends assembled there)
    Convey'd three cups into her bosom-folds,
    And bore them off, whom I a thoughtless child
    Accompanied, at the decline of day,
    When dusky evening had embrown'd the shore.                      570
    We, stepping nimbly on, soon reach'd the port
    Renown'd, where that Phoenician vessel lay.
    They shipp'd us both, and all embarking cleav'd
    Their liquid road, by favourable gales,
    Jove's gift, impell'd. Six days we day and night
    Continual sailed, but when Saturnian Jove
    Now bade the sev'nth bright morn illume the skies,
    Then, shaft-arm'd Dian struck the woman dead.
    At once she pitch'd headlong into the bilge
    Like a sea-coot, whence heaving her again,                       580
    The seamen gave her to be fishes' food,
    And I survived to mourn her. But the winds
    And rolling billows them bore to the coast
    Of Ithaca, where with his proper goods
    Laertes bought me. By such means it chanced
    That e'er I saw the isle in which I dwell.
      To whom Ulysses, glorious Chief, replied.
    Eumaeus! thou hast moved me much, thy woes
    Enumerating thus at large. But Jove
    Hath neighbour'd all thy evil with this good,                    590
    That after num'rous sorrows thou hast reach'd
    The house of a kind master, at whose hands
    Thy sustenance is sure, and here thou lead'st
    A tranquil life; but I have late arrived,
    City after city of the world explored.
      Thus mutual they conferr'd, nor leisure found
    Save for short sleep, by morning soon surprized.
    Meantime the comrades of Telemachus
    Approaching land, cast loose the sail, and lower'd
    Alert the mast, then oar'd the vessel in.                        600
    The anchors heav'd aground,[71] and hawsers tied
    Secure, themselves, forth-issuing on the shore,
    Breakfast prepared, and charged their cups with wine.
    When neither hunger now, nor thirst remained
    Unsatisfied, Telemachus began.
      Push ye the sable bark without delay
    Home to the city. I will to the field
    Among my shepherds, and, (my rural works
    Survey'd,) at eve will to the town return.
    To-morrow will I set before you wine                             610
    And plenteous viands, wages of your toil.
      To whom the godlike Theoclymenus.
    Whither must I, my son? who, of the Chiefs
    Of rugged Ithaca, shall harbour me?
    Shall I to thine and to thy mother's house?
      Then thus Telemachus, discrete, replied.
    I would invite thee to proceed at once
    To our abode, since nought should fail thee there
    Of kind reception, but it were a course
    Now not adviseable; for I must myself,                           620
    Be absent, neither would my mother's eyes
    Behold thee, so unfrequent she appears
    Before the suitors, shunning whom, she sits
    Weaving continual at the palace-top.
    But I will name to thee another Chief
    Whom thou may'st seek, Eurymachus, the son
    Renown'd of prudent Polybus, whom all
    The people here reverence as a God.
    Far noblest of them all is he, and seeks
    More ardent than his rivals far, to wed                          630
    My mother, and to fill my father's throne.
    But, He who dwells above, Jove only knows
    If some disastrous day be not ordain'd
    For them, or ere those nuptials shall arrive.
      While thus he spake, at his right hand appear'd,
    Messenger of Apollo, on full wing,
    A falcon; in his pounces clench'd he bore
    A dove, which rending, down he pour'd her plumes
    Between the galley and Telemachus.
    Then, calling him apart, the prophet lock'd                      640
    His hand in his, and thus explain'd the sign.
      Not undirected by the Gods his flight
    On our right hand, Telemachus! this hawk
    Hath wing'd propitious; soon as I perceived
    I knew him ominous--In all the isle
    No family of a more royal note
    Than yours is found, and yours shall still prevail.
      Whom thus Telemachus answer'd discrete.
    Grant heav'n, my guest! that this good word of thine
    Fail not, and soon thou shalt such bounty share                  650
    And friendship at my hands, that, at first sight,
    Whoe'er shall meet thee shall pronounce thee blest.
      Then, to Piraeus thus, his friend approved.
    Piraeus, son of Clytius! (for of all
    My followers to the shore of Pylus, none
    More prompt than thou hath my desires perform'd)
    Now also to thy own abode conduct
    This stranger, whom with hospitable care
    Cherish and honour till myself arrive.
      To whom Piraeus answer'd, spear-renown'd.                       660
    Telemachus! however long thy stay,
    Punctual I will attend him, and no want
    Of hospitality shall he find with me.
      So saying, he climb'd the ship, then bade the crew
    Embarking also, cast the hawsers loose,
    And each, obedient, to his bench repair'd.
    Meantime Telemachus his sandals bound,
    And lifted from the deck his glitt'ring spear.
    Then, as Telemachus had bidden them,
    Son of divine Ulysses, casting loose                             670
    The hawsers, forth they push'd into the Deep
    And sought the city, while with nimble pace
    Proceeding thence, Telemachus attain'd
    The cottage soon where good Eumaeus slept,
    The swine-herd, faithful to his num'rous charge.
