She paused, breathless and pale, and walked rapidly along the terrace,
as if to hide or control the agitation that possessed her.
Treherne still sat silent, but his heart leaped within him, as he
thought, "She sees that Octavia loves me! A woman's eye is quick to
detect love in another, and she asserts what I begin to hope. My
cousin's manner just now, her dislike of Annon, her new shyness with me;
it may be true, and if it is--Heaven help me--what am I saying! I must
not hope, nor wish, nor dream; I must renounce and forget."
He leaned his head upon his hand, and sat so still Mrs. Snowdon rejoined
him, pale, but calm and self-possessed. As she drew near, she marked his
attitude, the bitter sadness of his face, and hope sprang up within her.
Perhaps she was mistaken; perhaps he did not love his cousin; perhaps he
still remembered the past, and still regretted the loss of the heart she
had just laid bare before him. Her husband was failing, and might die
any day. And then, free, rich, beautiful, and young, what might she not
become to Treherne, helpless, poor, and ambitious? With all her faults,
she was generous, and this picture charmed her fancy, warmed her heart,
and comforted her pain.
"Maurice," she said softly, pausing again beside him, "if I mistake you
and your hopes, it is because I dare ask nothing for myself; but if ever
a time shall come when I have liberty to give or help, ask of me
_anything_, and it is gladly yours."
He understood her, pitied her, and, seeing that she found consolation in
a distant hope, he let her enjoy it while she might. Gravely, yet
gratefully, he spoke, and pressed the hand extended to him with an
impulsive gesture.
"Generous as ever, Edith, and impetuously frank. Thank you for your
sincerity, your kindness, and the affection you once gave me. I say
'once,' for now duty, truth, and honor bar us from each other. My life
must be solitary, yet I shall find work to do, and learn to be content.
You owe all devotion to the good old man who loves you, and will not
fail him, I am sure. Leave the future and the past, but let us make the
present what it may be--a time to forgive and forget, to take heart and
begin anew. Christmas is a fitting time for such resolves, and the birth
of friendship such as ours may be."
Something in his tone and manner struck her, and, eyeing him with soft
wonder, she exclaimed, "How changed you are!"
"Need you tell me that?" And he glanced at his helpless limbs with a
bitter yet pathetic look of patience.
"No, no--not so! I mean in mind, not body. Once you were gay and
careless, eager and fiery, like Jasper; now you are grave and quiet, or
cheerful, and so very kind. Yet, in spite of illness and loss, you seem
twice the man you were, and something wins respect, as well as
admiration--and love."
