When the thermometer drops, man ceases--with all his lusts and wrestlings
and achievements; with all his race-adventures and race-tragedies; and
with all his red killings, billions upon billions of human lives
multiplied by as many billions more.  This is the last word of Science,
unless there be some further, unguessed word which Science will some day
find and utter.  In the meantime it sees no farther than the starry void,
where the "fleeting systems lapse like foam."  Of what ledger-account is
the tiny life of man in a vastness where stars snuff out like candles and
great suns blaze for a time-tick of eternity and are gone?
And for us who live, no worse can happen than has happened to the
earliest drifts of man, marked to-day by ruined cities of forgotten
civilisation--ruined cities, which, on excavation, are found to rest on
ruins of earlier cities, city upon city, and fourteen cities, down to a
stratum where, still earlier, wandering herdsmen drove their flocks, and
where, even preceding them, wild hunters chased their prey long after the
cave-man and the man of the squatting-place cracked the knuckle-bones of
wild animals and vanished from the earth.  There is nothing terrible
about it.  With Richard Hovey, when he faced his death, we can say:
"Behold!  I have lived!"  And with another and greater one, we can lay
ourselves down with a will.  The one drop of living, the one taste of
being, has been good; and perhaps our greatest achievement will be that
we dreamed immortality, even though we failed to realise it.
SMALL-BOAT SAILING
A sailor is born, not made.  And by "sailor" is meant, not the average
efficient and hopeless creature who is found to-day in the forecastle of
deepwater ships, but the man who will take a fabric compounded of wood
and iron and rope and canvas and compel it to obey his will on the
surface of the sea.  Barring captains and mates of big ships, the small-
boat sailor is the real sailor.  He knows--he must know--how to make the
wind carry his craft from one given point to another given point.  He
must know about tides and rips and eddies, bar and channel markings, and
day and night signals; he must be wise in weather-lore; and he must be
sympathetically familiar with the peculiar qualities of his boat which
differentiate it from every other boat that was ever built and rigged.  He
must know how to gentle her about, as one instance of a myriad, and to
fill her on the other tack without deadening her way or allowing her to
fall off too far.
The deepwater sailor of to-day needs know none of these things.  And he
doesn't.  He pulls and hauls as he is ordered, swabs decks, washes paint,
and chips iron-rust.  He knows nothing, and cares less.  Put him in a
small boat and he is helpless.  He will cut an even better figure on the
hurricane deck of a horse.
I shall never forget my child-astonishment when I first encountered one
of these strange beings.  He was a runaway English sailor.  I was a lad
of twelve, with a decked-over, fourteen-foot, centre-board skiff which I
had taught myself to sail.  I sat at his feet as at the feet of a god,
while he discoursed of strange lands and peoples, deeds of violence, and
hair-raising gales at sea.  Then, one day, I took him for a sail.  With
all the trepidation of the veriest little amateur, I hoisted sail and got
under way.  Here was a man, looking on critically, I was sure, who knew
more in one second about boats and the water than I could ever know.
After an interval, in which I exceeded myself, he took the tiller and the
sheet.  I sat on the little thwart amidships, open-mouthed, prepared to
learn what real sailing was.  My mouth remained open, for I learned what
a real sailor was in a small boat.  He couldn't trim the sheet to save
himself, he nearly capsized several times in squalls, and, once again, by
blunderingly jibing over; he didn't know what a centre-board was for, nor
did he know that in running a boat before the wind one must sit in the
middle instead of on the side; and finally, when we came back to the
wharf, he ran the skiff in full tilt, shattering her nose and carrying
away the mast-step.  And yet he was a really truly sailor fresh from the
vasty deep.
