"You have a good memory."
"I have for everything concerning those I love. I observed her manner
of meeting my brother, his devotion to her, and, when they stood
laughing together before the fire, I felt sure that she wished to charm
him again."
"Again? Then she did charm him once?" asked Treherne, anxious to know
how much Jasper had told his sister.
"He always denied it, and declared that you were the favorite."
"Then why not think the note for me?" he asked.
"I do now" was the sharp answer.
"But she told you it was for the major, and sent it."
"She deceived me; I am not surprised. I am glad Jasper is safe, and I
wish you a pleasant tete-a-tete."
Bowing with unwonted dignity, Octavia set down her basket, and walked
away in one direction as Mrs. Snowdon approached in another.
"I have done it now," sighed Treherne, turning from the girlish figure
to watch the stately creature who came sweeping toward him with
noiseless grace.
Brilliancy and splendor became Mrs. Snowdon; she enjoyed luxury, and her
beauty made many things becoming which in a plainer woman would have
been out of taste, and absurd. She had wrapped herself in a genuine
Eastern burnous of scarlet, blue, and gold; the hood drawn over her head
framed her fine face in rich hues, and the great gilt tassels shone
against her rippling black hair. She wore it with grace, and the
barbaric splendor of the garment became her well. The fresh air touched
her cheeks with a delicate color; her usually gloomy eyes were brilliant
now, and the smile that parted her lips was full of happiness.
"Welcome, Cleopatra!" cried Treherne, with difficulty repressing a
laugh, as the peacocks screamed and fled before the rustling amplitude
of her drapery.
"I might reply by calling you Thaddeus of Warsaw, for you look very
romantic and Polish with your pale, pensive face, and your splendid
furs," she answered, as she paused beside him with admiration very
visibly expressed in her eyes.
Treherne disliked the look, and rather abruptly said, as he offered her
the basket of bread, "I have disposed of my cousin, and offered to do
the honors of the peacocks. Here they are--will you feed them?"
"No, thank you--I care nothing for the fowls, as you know; I came to
speak to you," she said impatiently.
"I am at your service."
"I wish to ask you a question or two--is it permitted?"
"What man ever refused Mrs. Snowdon a request?"
"Nay, no compliments; from you they are only satirical evasions. I was
deceived when abroad, and rashly married that old man. Tell me truly how
things stand."
"Jasper has all. I have nothing."
"I am glad of it."
"Many thanks for the hearty speech. You at least speak sincerely," he
said bitterly.
"I do, Maurice--I do; let me prove it."
Treherne's chair was close beside the balustrade. Mrs. Snowdon leaned on
the carved railing, with her back to the house and her face screened by
a tall urn. Looking steadily at him, she said rapidly and low, "You
thought I wavered between you and Jasper, when we parted two years ago.
I did; but it was not between title and fortune that I hesitated. It was
between duty and love. My father, a fond, foolish old man, had set his
heart on seeing me a lady. I was his all; my beauty was his delight, and
no untitled man was deemed worthy of me. I loved him tenderly. You may
doubt this, knowing how selfish, reckless, and vain I am, but I have a
heart, and with better training had been a better woman. No matter, it
is too late now. Next my father, I loved you. Nay, hear me--I _will_
clear myself in your eyes. I mean no wrong to the general. He is kind,
indulgent, generous; I respect him--I am grateful, and while he lives, I
shall be true to him."
