NORFOLK.
How holily he works in all his business!
And with what zeal! for, now he has crack'd the league
Between us and the Emperor, the Queen's great nephew,
He dives into the King's soul, and there scatters
Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience,
Fears, and despairs; and all these for his marriage.
And out of all these to restore the King,
He counsels a divorce; a loss of her
That, like a jewel, has hung twenty years
About his neck, yet never lost her lustre;
Of her that loves him with that excellence
That angels love good men with; even of her
That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls,
Will bless the King.  And is not this course pious?
CHAMBERLAIN.
Heaven keep me from such counsel! 'Tis most true
These news are everywhere; every tongue speaks 'em,
And every true heart weeps for't. All that dare
Look into these affairs see this main end,
The French king's sister. Heaven will one day open
The King's eyes, that so long have slept upon
This bold bad man.
SUFFOLK.
And free us from his slavery.
NORFOLK.
We had need pray,
And heartily, for our deliverance;
Or this imperious man will work us an
From princes into pages. All men's honours
Lie like one lump before him, to be fashion'd
Into what pitch he please.
SUFFOLK.
For me, my lords,
I love him not, nor fear him; there's my creed.
As I am made without him, so I'll stand,
If the King please; his curses and his blessings
Touch me alike, they'are breath I not believe in.
I knew him, and I know him; so I leave him
To him that made him proud, the Pope.
NORFOLK.
Let's in;
And with some other business put the King
From these sad thoughts, that work too much upon him.
My lord, you'll bear us company?
CHAMBERLAIN.
Excuse me,
The King has sent me otherwhere.  Besides,
You'll find a most unfit time to disturb him.
Health to your lordships!
NORFOLK.
Thanks, my good Lord Chamberlain.
[Exit Lord Chamberlain; Norfolk draws the curtain, and
discovers the King reading pensively.]
SUFFOLK.
How sad he looks!  Sure, he is much afflicted.
KING.
Who's there, ha?
NORFOLK.
Pray God he be not angry.
KING.
Who's there, I say? How dare you thrust yourselves
Into my private meditations?
Who am I? ha?
NORFOLK.
A gracious king that pardons all offences
Malice ne'er meant. Our breach of duty this way
Is business of estate; in which we come
To know your royal pleasure.
KING.
Ye are too bold.
Go to; I'll make ye know your times of business.
Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?
[Enter Wolsey and Campeius, with a commission.]
Who's there? My good Lord Cardinal? O my Wolsey,
The quiet of my wounded conscience,
Thou art a cure fit for a King. [To Campeius.] You're welcome,
Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom;
Use us and it. [To Wolsey.]  My good lord, have great care
I be not found a talker.
