The prince's expression was so good-natured at this moment, and so
entirely free from even a suspicion of unpleasant feeling was the
smile with which he looked at the general as he spoke, that the latter
suddenly paused, and appeared to gaze at his guest from quite a new
point of view, all in an instant.
"Do you know, prince," he said, in quite a different tone, "I do not
know you at all, yet, and after all, Elizabetha Prokofievna would
very likely be pleased to have a peep at a man of her own name. Wait a
little, if you don't mind, and if you have time to spare?"
"Oh, I assure you I've lots of time, my time is entirely my own!" And
the prince immediately replaced his soft, round hat on the table. "I
confess, I thought Elizabetha Prokofievna would very likely remember
that I had written her a letter. Just now your servant--outside
there--was dreadfully suspicious that I had come to beg of you. I
noticed that! Probably he has very strict instructions on that score;
but I assure you I did not come to beg. I came to make some friends.
But I am rather bothered at having disturbed you; that's all I care
about.--"
"Look here, prince," said the general, with a cordial smile, "if you
really are the sort of man you appear to be, it may be a source of great
pleasure to us to make your better acquaintance; but, you see, I am
a very busy man, and have to be perpetually sitting here and signing
papers, or off to see his excellency, or to my department, or somewhere;
so that though I should be glad to see more of people, nice people--you
see, I--however, I am sure you are so well brought up that you will see
at once, and--but how old are you, prince?"
"Twenty-six."
"No? I thought you very much younger."
"Yes, they say I have a 'young' face. As to disturbing you I shall soon
learn to avoid doing that, for I hate disturbing people. Besides, you
and I are so differently constituted, I should think, that there must be
very little in common between us. Not that I will ever believe there is
_nothing_ in common between any two people, as some declare is the case.
I am sure people make a great mistake in sorting each other into groups,
by appearances; but I am boring you, I see, you--"
"Just two words: have you any means at all? Or perhaps you may be
intending to undertake some sort of employment? Excuse my questioning
you, but--"
"Oh, my dear sir, I esteem and understand your kindness in putting the
question. No; at present I have no means whatever, and no employment
either, but I hope to find some. I was living on other people abroad.
Schneider, the professor who treated me and taught me, too, in
Switzerland, gave me just enough money for my journey, so that now I
have but a few copecks left. There certainly is one question upon which
I am anxious to have advice, but--"
