Thea had to walk more than a mile to reach the Kohlers' house, a very
pleasant mile out of town toward the glittering sand hills,--yellow this
morning, with lines of deep violet where the clefts and valleys were.
She followed the sidewalk to the depot at the south end of the town;
then took the road east to the little group of adobe houses where the
Mexicans lived, then dropped into a deep ravine; a dry sand creek,
across which the railroad track ran on a trestle. Beyond that gulch, on
a little rise of ground that faced the open sandy plain, was the
Kohlers' house, where Professor Wunsch lived. Fritz Kohler was the town
tailor, one of the first settlers. He had moved there, built a little
house and made a garden, when Moonstone was first marked down on the
map. He had three sons, but they now worked on the railroad and were
stationed in distant cities. One of them had gone to work for the Santa
Fe, and lived in New Mexico.
Mrs. Kohler seldom crossed the ravine and went into the town except at
Christmas-time, when she had to buy presents and Christmas cards to send
to her old friends in Freeport, Illinois. As she did not go to church,
she did not possess such a thing as a hat. Year after year she wore the
same red hood in winter and a black sunbonnet in summer. She made her
own dresses; the skirts came barely to her shoe-tops, and were gathered
as full as they could possibly be to the waistband. She preferred men's
shoes, and usually wore the cast-offs of one of her sons. She had never
learned much English, and her plants and shrubs were her companions. She
lived for her men and her garden. Beside that sand gulch, she had tried
to reproduce a bit of her own village in the Rhine Valley. She hid
herself behind the growth she had fostered, lived under the shade of
what she had planted and watered and pruned. In the blaze of the open
plain she was stupid and blind like an owl. Shade, shade; that was what
she was always planning and making. Behind the high tamarisk hedge, her
garden was a jungle of verdure in summer. Above the cherry trees and
peach trees and golden plums stood the windmill, with its tank on
stilts, which kept all this verdure alive. Outside, the sage-brush grew
up to the very edge of the garden, and the sand was always drifting up
to the tamarisks.
Every one in Moonstone was astonished when the Kohlers took the
wandering music-teacher to live with them. In seventeen years old Fritz
had never had a crony, except the harness-maker and Spanish Johnny. This
Wunsch came from God knew where,--followed Spanish Johnny into town when
that wanderer came back from one of his tramps. Wunsch played in the
dance orchestra, tuned pianos, and gave lessons. When Mrs. Kohler
rescued him, he was sleeping in a dirty, unfurnished room over one of
the saloons, and he had only two shirts in the world. Once he was under
her roof, the old woman went at him as she did at her garden. She sewed
and washed and mended for him, and made him so clean and respectable
that he was able to get a large class of pupils and to rent a piano. As
soon as he had money ahead, he sent to the Narrow Gauge lodging-house,
in Denver, for a trunkful of music which had been held there for unpaid
board. With tears in his eyes the old man--he was not over fifty, but
sadly battered--told Mrs. Kohler that he asked nothing better of God
than to end his days with her, and to be buried in the garden, under her
linden trees. They were not American basswood, but the European linden,
which has honey-colored blooms in summer, with a fragrance that
surpasses all trees and flowers and drives young people wild with joy.
