Still Margaret would not leave the island. "Supposing," she said, "that
Mr. Learoyd comes for his ale." But she consented to walk with him to
the wild part of the island, where poplars and alders and willows grew
round a clearing in which white willow-herb and purple figwort and here
and there a potato-flower, last ailing consequence of one of Mr.
Allington's least successful enterprises, fought down to the fringe of
iris on the river's lip. In this gentle jungle was a rustic seat, relic
of a reckless aspiration on the part of Mr. Allington to make this a
pleasure-garden, and on it they sat until a pale moon appeared above the
green corn-field on the other side of the river. "Not six yet," he said,
taking out his watch. "Not six yet," she repeated. Words seemed to bear
more significance than they had ever borne before. Then a heron flapped
gigantic in front of the moon, and swung in wide circles round the
willow-tree before them. "Oh, look!" she cried. He seized the hand she
flung upward and gathered her into his arms. They were so for long,
while the great bird's wings beat about them.
Afterward she pulled at his hand. She wanted to go back across the lawn
and walk round the inn, which looked mournful, as unlit houses do by
dusk. They passed beside the green-and-white stucco barrier of the
veranda and stood on the three-cornered lawn that shelved high over the
stream at the island's end, regarding the river, which was now something
more wonderful than water, because it had taken to its bosom the rose
and amber glories of the sunset smoldering behind the elms and Bray
church-tower. Birds sat on the telegraph wires that spanned the river as
the black notes sit on a staff of music. Then she went to the window of
the parlor and rested her cheek against the glass, looking in. The
little room was sad with twilight, and there was nothing to be seen but
Margaret's sewing-machine on the table and the enlarged photograph of
Margaret's mother over the mantel-piece, and the views of Tintern Abbey
framed in red plush, and on the floor, the marigold pattern making
itself felt through the dusk, Mr. Allington's carpet slippers. "Think of
me sitting in there," she whispered, "not knowing you loved me." Then
they went into the bar and drank milk, while she walked about fingering
familiar things with an absurd expression of exaltation, as though that
day she was fond of everything, even the handles of the beer-engine.
When there had descended on them a night as brilliant as the day he drew
her out into the darkness, which was sweet with the scent of
walnut-leaves, and they went across the lawn, bending beneath the
chestnut-boughs, not to the wild part of the island, but to a circle of
smooth turf divided from it by a railing of wrought iron. On this stood
a small Greek temple, looking very lovely in the moonlight. He had never
brought Margaret here before, because Mr. Allington had once told him,
spatulate forefinger at his nose, that it had been built for the "dook"
for his excesses, and it was in the quality of his love for her that he
could not bear to think of her in association with anything base. But
to-night there was nothing anywhere but beauty. He lifted her in his
arms and carried her within the columns, and made her stand in a niche
above the altar. A strong stream of moonlight rushed upon her there; by
its light he could not tell if her hair was white as silver or yellow as
gold, and again he was filled with exaltation because he knew that it
would not have mattered if it had been white. His love was changeless.
Lifting her down from the niche, he told her so.
