I found this was a little too close upon him, but I made it up in what
follows.  He stood stock-still for a while and said nothing, and I went
on thus:  'You cannot,' says I, 'without the highest injustice, believe
that I yielded upon all these persuasions without a love not to be
questioned, not to be shaken again by anything that could happen
afterward.  If you have such dishonourable thoughts of me, I must ask
you what foundation in any of my behaviour have I given for such a
suggestion?
'If, then, I have yielded to the importunities of my affection, and if
I have been persuaded to believe that I am really, and in the essence
of the thing, your wife, shall I now give the lie to all those
arguments and call myself your whore, or mistress, which is the same
thing?  And will you transfer me to your brother?  Can you transfer my
affection?  Can you bid me cease loving you, and bid me love him?  It
is in my power, think you, to make such a change at demand?  No, sir,'
said I, 'depend upon it 'tis impossible, and whatever the change of
your side may be, I will ever be true; and I had much rather, since it
is come that unhappy length, be your whore than your brother's wife.'
He appeared pleased and touched with the impression of this last
discourse, and told me that he stood where he did before; that he had
not been unfaithful to me in any one promise he had ever made yet, but
that there were so many terrible things presented themselves to his
view in the affair before me, and that on my account in particular,
that he had thought of the other as a remedy so effectual as nothing
could come up to it.  That he thought this would not be entire parting
us, but we might love as friends all our days, and perhaps with more
satisfaction than we should in the station we were now in, as things
might happen; that he durst say, I could not apprehend anything from
him as to betraying a secret, which could not but be the destruction of
us both, if it came out; that he had but one question to ask of me that
could lie in the way of it, and if that question was answered in the
negative, he could not but think still it was the only step I could
take.
I guessed at his question presently, namely, whether I was sure I was
not with child?  As to that, I told him he need not be concerned about
it, for I was not with child.  'Why, then, my dear,' says he, 'we have
no time to talk further now.  Consider of it, and think closely about
it; I cannot but be of the opinion still, that it will be the best
course you can take.' And with this he took his leave, and the more
hastily too, his mother and sisters ringing at the gate, just at the
moment that he had risen up to go.
