‘You’re always a-being begged, and prayed, upon your bended knees you
are,’ said the footman with great emphasis to Trotty Veck, ‘to let our
door-steps be.  Why don’t you let ’em be?  CAN’T you let ’em be?’
‘There!  That’ll do, that’ll do!’ said the gentleman.  ‘Halloa there!
Porter!’ beckoning with his head to Trotty Veck.  ‘Come here.  What’s
that?  Your dinner?’
‘Yes, sir,’ said Trotty, leaving it behind him in a corner.
‘Don’t leave it there,’ exclaimed the gentleman.  ‘Bring it here, bring
it here.  So!  This is your dinner, is it?’
‘Yes, sir,’ repeated Trotty, looking with a fixed eye and a watery mouth,
at the piece of tripe he had reserved for a last delicious tit-bit; which
the gentleman was now turning over and over on the end of the fork.
Two other gentlemen had come out with him.  One was a low-spirited
gentleman of middle age, of a meagre habit, and a disconsolate face; who
kept his hands continually in the pockets of his scanty pepper-and-salt
trousers, very large and dog’s-eared from that custom; and was not
particularly well brushed or washed.  The other, a full-sized, sleek,
well-conditioned gentleman, in a blue coat with bright buttons, and a
white cravat.  This gentleman had a very red face, as if an undue
proportion of the blood in his body were squeezed up into his head; which
perhaps accounted for his having also the appearance of being rather cold
about the heart.
He who had Toby’s meat upon the fork, called to the first one by the name
of Filer; and they both drew near together.  Mr. Filer being exceedingly
short-sighted, was obliged to go so close to the remnant of Toby’s dinner
before he could make out what it was, that Toby’s heart leaped up into
his mouth.  But Mr. Filer didn’t eat it.
‘This is a description of animal food, Alderman,’ said Filer, making
little punches in it with a pencil-case, ‘commonly known to the labouring
population of this country, by the name of tripe.’
The Alderman laughed, and winked; for he was a merry fellow, Alderman
Cute.  Oh, and a sly fellow too!  A knowing fellow.  Up to everything.
Not to be imposed upon.  Deep in the people’s hearts!  He knew them, Cute
did.  I believe you!
‘But who eats tripe?’ said Mr. Filer, looking round.  ‘Tripe is without
an exception the least economical, and the most wasteful article of
consumption that the markets of this country can by possibility produce.
The loss upon a pound of tripe has been found to be, in the boiling,
seven-eights of a fifth more than the loss upon a pound of any other
animal substance whatever.  Tripe is more expensive, properly understood,
than the hothouse pine-apple.  Taking into account the number of animals
slaughtered yearly within the bills of mortality alone; and forming a low
estimate of the quantity of tripe which the carcases of those animals,
reasonably well butchered, would yield; I find that the waste on that
amount of tripe, if boiled, would victual a garrison of five hundred men
for five months of thirty-one days each, and a February over.  The Waste,
the Waste!’
