First peering out to make sure no soldiers were attempting the passage,
Koolau started back on the run for the caves.  All the time the shells
were moaning, whining, screaming by, and the valley was rumbling and
reverberating with the explosions.  As he came in sight of the caves, he
saw the two idiots cavorting about, clutching each other's hands with
their stumps of fingers.  Even as he ran, Koolau saw a spout of black
smoke rise from the ground, near to the idiots.  They were flung apart
bodily by the explosion.  One lay motionless, but the other was dragging
himself by his hands toward the cave.  His legs trailed out helplessly
behind him, while the blood was pouring from his body.  He seemed bathed
in blood, and as he crawled he cried like a little dog.  The rest of the
lepers, with the exception of Kapahei, had fled into the caves.
"Seventeen," said Kapahei.  "Eighteen," he added.
This last shell had fairly entered into one of the caves.  The explosion
caused the caves to empty.  But from the particular cave no one emerged.
Koolau crept in through the pungent, acrid smoke.  Four bodies,
frightfully mangled, lay about.  One of them was the sightless woman
whose tears till now had never ceased.
Outside, Koolau found his people in a panic and already beginning to
climb the goat-trail that led out of the gorge and on among the jumbled
heights and chasms.  The wounded idiot, whining feebly and dragging
himself along on the ground by his hands, was trying to follow.  But at
the first pitch of the wall his helplessness overcame him and he fell
back.
"It would be better to kill him," said Koolau to Kapahei, who still sat
in the same place.
"Twenty-two," Kapahei answered.  "Yes, it would be a wise thing to kill
him.  Twenty-three--twenty-four."
The idiot whined sharply when he saw the rifle levelled at him.  Koolau
hesitated, then lowered the gun.
"It is a hard thing to do," he said.
"You are a fool, twenty-six, twenty-seven," said Kapahei.  "Let me show
you."
He arose, and with a heavy fragment of rock in his hand, approached the
wounded thing.  As he lifted his arm to strike, a shell burst full upon
him, relieving him of the necessity of the act and at the same time
putting an end to his count.
Koolau was alone in the gorge.  He watched the last of his people drag
their crippled bodies over the brow of the height and disappear.  Then he
turned and went down to the thicket where the maid had keen killed.  The
shell-fire still continued, but he remained; for far below he could see
the soldiers climbing up.  A shell burst twenty feet away.  Flattening
himself into the earth, he heard the rush of the fragments above his
body.  A shower of hau blossoms rained upon him.  He lifted his head to
peer down the trail, and sighed.  He was very much afraid.  Bullets from
rifles would not have worried him, but this shell-fire was abominable.
Each time a shell shrieked by he shivered and crouched; but each time he
lifted his head again to watch the trail.
