  THE PREFACE TO THE READER
Of all books extant in all kinds, Homer is the first and best. No one
before his, Josephus affirms; nor before him, saith Velleius
Paterculus, was there any whom he imitated, nor after him any that
could imitate him. And that Poesy may be no cause of detraction from
all the eminence we give him, Spondanus (preferring it to all arts
and sciences) unanswerably argues and proves; for to the glory of
God, and the singing of his glories, no man dares deny, man was
chiefly made. And what art performs this chief end of man with so
much excitation and expression as Poesy; Moses, David, Solomon, Job,
Esay, Jeremy, etc. chiefly using that to the end abovesaid? And since
the excellence of it cannot be obtained by the labour and art of man,
as all easily confess it, it must needs be acknowledged a Divine
infusion. To prove which in a word, this distich, in my estimation,
serves something nearly:
  Great Poesy, blind Homer, makes all see
  Thee capable of all arts, none of thee.
For out of him, according to our most grave and judicial Plutarch,
are all Arts deduced, confirmed, or illustrated. It is not therefore
the world's vilifying of it that can make it vile; for so we might
argue, and blaspheme the most incomparably sacred. It is not of the
world indeed, but, like truth, hides itself from it. Nor is there any
such reality of wisdom's truth in all human excellence, as in Poets'
fictions. That most vulgar and foolish receipt of poetical licence
being of all knowing men to be exploded, accepting it, as if Poets
had a tale-telling privilege above others, no Artist being so
strictly and inextricably confined to all the laws of learning,
wisdom, and truth, as a Poet. For were not his fictions composed of
the sinews and souls of all those, how could they defy fire, iron,
and be combined with eternity? To all sciences therefore, I must
still, with our learned and ingenious Spondanus, refer it, as having
a perpetual commerce with the Divine Majesty, embracing and
illustrating all His most holy precepts, and enjoying continual
discourse with His thrice perfect and most comfortable Spirit. And as
the contemplative life is most worthily and divinely preferred by
Plato to the active, as much as the head to the foot, the eye to the
hand, reason to sense, the soul to the body, the end itself to all
things directed to the end, quiet to motion, and eternity to time; so
much prefer I divine Poesy to all worldly wisdom. To the only shadow
of whose worth, yet, I entitle not the bold rhymes of every apish and
impudent braggart, though he dares assume anything; such I turn over
to the weaving of cobwebs, and shall but chatter on molehills (far
under the hill of the Muses) when their fortunatest self-love and
ambition hath advanced them highest. Poesy is the flower of the Sun,
and disdains to open to the eye of a candle. So kings hide their
treasures and counsels from the vulgar, _ne evilescant_ (saith our
Spond.). We have example sacred enough, that true Poesy's humility,
poverty, and contempt, are badges of divinity, not vanity. Bray then,
and bark against it, ye wolf-faced worldlings, that nothing but
honours, riches, and magistracy, _nescio quos turgide spiratis_ (that
I may use the words of our friend still) _qui solas leges Justinianas
crepatis; paragraphum unum aut alterum, pluris quam vos ipsos
facitis,_ etc. I (for my part) shall ever esteem it much more manly
and sacred, in this harmless and pious study, to sit till I sink into
my grave, than shine in your vainglorious bubbles and impieties; all
your poor policies, wisdoms, and their trappings, at no more valuing
than a musty nut. And much less I weigh the frontless detractions of
some stupid ignorants, that, no more knowing me than their own
beastly ends, and I ever (to my knowledge) blest from their sight,
whisper behind me vilifyings of my translation, out of the French
affirming them, when both in French, and all other languages but his
own, our with-all-skill-enriched Poet is so poor and unpleasing that
no man can discern from whence flowed his so generally given eminence
and admiration. And therefore (by any reasonable creature's
conference of my slight comment and conversion) it will easily appear
how I shun them, and whether the original be my rule or not. In which
he shall easily see, I understand the understandings of all other
interpreters and commentors in places of his most depth, importance,
and rapture. In whose exposition and illustration, if I abhor from
the sense that others wrest and wrack out of him, let my best
detractor examine how the Greek word warrants me. For my other fresh
fry, let them fry in their foolish galls, nothing so much weighed as
the barkings of the puppies, or foisting hounds, too vile to think of
our sacred Homer, or set their profane feet within their lives'
length of his thresholds. If I fail in something, let my full
performance in other some restore me; haste spurring me on with other
necessities. For as at my conclusion I protest, so here at my
entrance, less than fifteen weeks was the time in which all the last
twelve books were entirely new translated. No conference had with
anyone living in all the novelties I presume I have found. Only some
one or two places I have showed to my worthy and most learned friend,
M. Harriots, for his censure how much mine own weighed; whose
judgment and knowledge in all kinds, I know to be incomparable and
bottomless, yea, to be admired as much, as his most blameless life,
and the right sacred expense of his time, is to be honoured and
reverenced. Which affirmation of his clear unmatchedness in all
manner of learning I make in contempt of that nasty objection often
thrust upon me,--that he that will judge must know more than he of
whom he judgeth; for so a man should know neither God nor himself.
Another right learned, honest, and entirely loved friend of mine, M.
Robert Hews, I must needs put into my confess'd conference touching
Homer, though very little more than that I had with M. Harriots.
Which two, I protest, are all, and preferred to all. Nor charge I
their authorities with, any allowance of my general labour, but only
of those one or two places, which for instances of my innovation, and
how it showed to them, I imparted. If any tax me for too much
periphrasis or circumlocution in some places, let them read
Laurentius Valla, and Eobanus Hessus, who either use such shortness
as cometh nothing home to Homer, or, where they shun that fault, are
ten parts more paraphrastical than I. As for example, one place I
will trouble you (if you please) to confer with the original, and one
interpreter for all. It is in the end of the third book, and is
Helen's speech to Venus fetching her to Paris from seeing his
cowardly combat with Menelaus; part of which speech I will here cite:
