"'And now,' said the king, fantastically poking the taper corner of his
sugar-loaf hat into the sexton's eye, and thereby occasioning him the
most exquisite pain: 'And now, show the man of misery and gloom, a few
of the pictures from our own great storehouse!'
"As the goblin said this, a thick cloud which obscured the remoter
end of the cavern rolled gradually away, and disclosed, apparently at
a great distance, a small and scantily furnished, but neat and clean
apartment. A crowd of little children were gathered round a bright
fire, clinging to their mother's gown, and gambolling around her chair.
The mother occasionally rose, and drew aside the window-curtain, as if
to look for some expected object; a frugal meal was ready spread upon
the table; and an elbow chair was placed near the fire. A knock was
heard at the door: the mother opened it, and the children crowded round
her, and clapped their hands for joy, as their father entered. He was
wet and weary, and shook the snow from his garments, as the children
crowded round him, and seizing his cloak, hat, stick, and gloves,
with busy zeal, ran with them from the room. Then, as he sat down to
his meal before the fire, the children climbed about his knee, and the
mother sat by his side, and all seemed happiness and comfort.
"But a change came upon the view, almost imperceptibly. The scene was
altered to a small bed-room, where the fairest and youngest child lay
dying; the roses had fled from his cheek, and the light from his eye;
and even as the sexton looked upon him with an interest he had never
felt or known before, he died. His young brothers and sisters crowded
round his little bed, and seized his tiny hand, so cold and heavy; but
they shrunk back from its touch, and looked with awe on his infant
face; for calm and tranquil as it was, and sleeping in rest and peace
as the beautiful child seemed to be, they saw that he was dead, and
they knew that he was an Angel looking down upon, and blessing them,
from a bright and happy Heaven.
"Again the light cloud passed across the picture, and again the subject
changed. The father and mother were old and helpless now, and the
number of those about them was diminished more than half; but content
and cheerfulness sat on every face, and beamed in every eye, as they
crowded round the fireside, and told and listened to old stories of
earlier and bygone days. Slowly and peacefully the father sank into
the grave, and, soon after, the sharer of all his cares and troubles
followed him to a place of rest. The few, who yet survived them, knelt
by their tomb, and watered the green turf which covered it, with their
tears; then rose, and turned away: sadly and mournfully, but not with
bitter cries, or despairing lamentations, for they knew that they
should one day meet again; and once more they mixed with the busy
world, and their content and cheerfulness were restored. The cloud
settled upon the picture, and concealed it from the sexton's view.
