CHAPTER II
[Illustration]
  _How the Pickwickians made and cultivated the Acquaintance of
    a couple of Nice Young Men belonging to one of the Liberal
    Professions; how they Disported themselves on the Ice; and how
    their First Visit came to a Conclusion_
"Well, Sam," said Mr. Pickwick as that favoured servitor entered his
bed-chamber with his warm water, on the morning of Christmas Day,
"still frosty?"
"Water in the wash-hand basin's a mask o' ice, sir," responded Sam.
"Severe weather, Sam," observed Mr. Pickwick.
"Fine time for them as is well wropped up, as the Polar Bear said to
himself, ven he was practising his skating," replied Mr. Weller.
"I shall be down in a quarter of an hour, Sam," said Mr. Pickwick,
untying his nightcap.
"Wery good, sir," replied Sam. "There's a couple o' Sawbones
downstairs."
"A couple of what!" exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, sitting up in bed.
"A couple o' Sawbones," said Sam.
"What's a Sawbones?" inquired Mr. Pickwick, not quite certain whether
it was a live animal, or something to eat.
"What! Don't you know what a Sawbones is, sir?" inquired Mr. Weller.
"I thought everybody know'd as a Sawbones was a surgeon."
"Oh, a surgeon, eh?" said Mr. Pickwick, with a smile.
"Just that, sir," replied Sam. "These here ones as is below, though,
ain't reg'lar thorough-bred Sawbones; they're only in trainin'."
"In other words they're medical students, I suppose?" said Mr. Pickwick.
Sam Weller nodded assent.
"I am glad of it," said Mr. Pickwick, casting his nightcap energetically
on the counterpane. "They are fine fellows; very fine fellows; with
judgments matured by observation and reflection; tastes refined by
reading and study. I am very glad of it."
"They're a smokin' cigars by the kitchen fire," said Sam.
"Ah!" observed Mr. Pickwick, rubbing his hands, "overflowing with
kindly feelings and animal spirits. Just what I like to see."
"And one on 'em," said Sam, not noticing his master's interruption,
"one on 'em's got his legs on the table, and is a drinkin' brandy
neat, vile the tother one--him in the barnacles--has got a barrel o'
oysters atween his knees, wich he's a openin' like steam, and as fast
as he eats 'em, he takes a aim vith the shells at young dropsy, who's a
sittin' down fast asleep, in the chimbley corner."
"Eccentricities of genius, Sam," said Mr. Pickwick. "You may retire."
Sam did retire accordingly; Mr. Pickwick, at the expiration of the
quarter of an hour, went down to breakfast.
"Here he is at last!" said old Mr. Wardle. "Pickwick, this is Miss
Allen's brother, Mr. Benjamin Allen. Ben we call him, and so may you if
you like. This gentleman is his very particular friend, Mr. ----"
"Mr. Bob Sawyer," interposed Mr. Benjamin Allen; whereupon Mr. Bob
Sawyer and Mr. Benjamin Allen laughed in concert.
Mr. Pickwick bowed to Bob Sawyer, and Bob Sawyer bowed to Mr. Pickwick;
Bob and his very particular friend then applied themselves most
assiduously to the eatables before them, and Mr. Pickwick had an
opportunity of glancing at them both.
