I have mentioned this in the beginning of this work, because, indeed, it
is the beginning of a tradesman's business. When a tradesman takes an
apprentice, the first thing he does for him, after he takes him from
behind his counter, after he lets him into his counting-house and his
books, and after trusting him with his more private business--I say, the
first thing is to let him write letters to his dealers, and correspond
with his friends; and this he does in his master's name, subscribing his
letters thus:--
     I am, for my master, A.B. and Company, your
     humble servant, C.D.
And beginning thus:--Sir,
     I am ordered by my master A.B. to advise you that--
Or thus:--
     Sir, By my master's order, I am to signify to you that
Orders for goods ought to be very explicit and particular, that the
dealer may not mistake, especially if it be orders from a tradesman to a
manufacturer to make goods, or to buy goods, either of such a quality,
or to such a pattern; in which, if the goods are made to the colours,
and of a marketable goodness, and within the time limited, the person
ordering them cannot refuse to receive them, and make himself debtor to
the maker. On the contrary, if the goods are not of a marketable
goodness, or not to the patterns, or are not sent within the time, the
maker ought not to expect they should be received. For example--
The tradesman, or warehouseman, or what else we may call him, writes to
his correspondent at Devizes, in Wiltshire, thus:--
'Sir--The goods you sent me last week are not at all for my purpose,
being of a sort which I am at present full of: however, if you are
willing they should lie here, I will take all opportunities to sell them
for your account; otherwise, on your first orders, they shall be
delivered to whoever you shall direct: and as you had no orders from me
for such sorts of goods, you cannot take this ill. But I have here
enclosed sent you five patterns as under, marked 1 to 5; if you think
fit to make me fifty pieces of druggets of the same weight and goodness
with the fifty pieces, No. A.B., which I had from you last October, and
mixed as exactly as you can to the enclosed patterns, ten to each
pattern, and can have the same to be delivered here any time in February
next, I shall take them at the same price which I gave you for the last;
and one month after the delivery you may draw upon me for the money,
which shall be paid to your content. Your friend and servant.
P.S. Let me have your return per next post, intimating that you can or
cannot answer this order, that I may govern myself accordingly. _To Mr
H.G., clothier, Devizes_.'
The clothier, accordingly, gives him an answer the next post, as
follows:--
'Sir--I have the favour of yours of the 22d past, with your order for
fifty fine druggets, to be made of the like weight and goodness with the
two packs, No. A.B., which I made for you and sent last October, as also
the five patterns enclosed, marked 1 to 5, for my direction in the
mixture. I give you this trouble, according to your order, to let you
know I have already put the said fifty pieces in hand; and as I am
always willing to serve you to the best of my power, and am thankful for
your favours, you may depend upon them within the time, that is to say,
some time in February next, and that they shall be of the like fineness
and substance with the other, and as near to the patterns as possible.
But in regard our poor are very craving, and money at this time very
scarce, I beg you will give me leave (twenty or thirty pieces of them
being finished and delivered to you at any time before the remainder),
to draw fifty pounds on you for present occasion; for which I shall
think myself greatly obliged, and shall give you any security you please
that the rest shall follow within the time.
