'This creature, Deputy, is behind us,' says Jasper, looking back.  'Is he
to follow us?'
The relations between Durdles and Deputy are of a capricious kind; for,
on Durdles's turning himself about with the slow gravity of beery
suddenness, Deputy makes a pretty wide circuit into the road and stands
on the defensive.
'You never cried Widdy Warning before you begun to-night,' says Durdles,
unexpectedly reminded of, or imagining, an injury.
'Yer lie, I did,' says Deputy, in his only form of polite contradiction.
'Own brother, sir,' observes Durdles, turning himself about again, and as
unexpectedly forgetting his offence as he had recalled or conceived it;
'own brother to Peter the Wild Boy!  But I gave him an object in life.'
'At which he takes aim?' Mr. Jasper suggests.
'That's it, sir,' returns Durdles, quite satisfied; 'at which he takes
aim.  I took him in hand and gave him an object.  What was he before?  A
destroyer.  What work did he do?  Nothing but destruction.  What did he
earn by it?  Short terms in Cloisterham jail.  Not a person, not a piece
of property, not a winder, not a horse, nor a dog, nor a cat, nor a bird,
nor a fowl, nor a pig, but what he stoned, for want of an enlightened
object.  I put that enlightened object before him, and now he can turn
his honest halfpenny by the three penn'orth a week.'
'I wonder he has no competitors.'
'He has plenty, Mr. Jasper, but he stones 'em all away.  Now, I don't
know what this scheme of mine comes to,' pursues Durdles, considering
about it with the same sodden gravity; 'I don't know what you may
precisely call it.  It ain't a sort of a--scheme of a--National
Education?'
'I should say not,' replies Jasper.
'I should say not,' assents Durdles; 'then we won't try to give it a
name.'
'He still keeps behind us,' repeats Jasper, looking over his shoulder;
'is he to follow us?'
'We can't help going round by the Travellers' Twopenny, if we go the
short way, which is the back way,' Durdles answers, 'and we'll drop him
there.'
So they go on; Deputy, as a rear rank one, taking open order, and
invading the silence of the hour and place by stoning every wall, post,
pillar, and other inanimate object, by the deserted way.
'Is there anything new down in the crypt, Durdles?' asks John Jasper.
'Anything old, I think you mean,' growls Durdles.  'It ain't a spot for
novelty.'
'Any new discovery on your part, I meant.'
'There's a old 'un under the seventh pillar on the left as you go down
the broken steps of the little underground chapel as formerly was; I make
him out (so fur as I've made him out yet) to be one of them old 'uns with
a crook.  To judge from the size of the passages in the walls, and of the
steps and doors, by which they come and went, them crooks must have been
a good deal in the way of the old 'uns!  Two on 'em meeting promiscuous
must have hitched one another by the mitre pretty often, I should say.'
