When at last I followed her she said:
"Do you believe her?"
I started. I had forgotten that we had ever disbelieved her.
"Yes," I replied.
"What can it mean?" She dropped her arms and stared at me imploringly.
"Think, think, of something it can mean which isn't detestable!"
"It's all a mystery," I said; and added madly, because nobody had ever
been cross with Kitty, "You didn't help to clear it up."
"Oh, I know you think I was rude," she petulantly moaned; "but you're
so slow you don't see what it means. Either it means that he's mad, our
Chris, our splendid, sane Chris, all broken and queer, not knowing us--I
can't bear to think of that. It can't be true. But if he isn't--Jenny,
there was nothing in that telegram to show he'd lost his memory. It was
just affection--a name that might have been a pet name, things that it
was a little common to put in a telegram. It's queer he should have
written such a message, queer that he shouldn't have told me about
knowing her, queer that he ever should have known such a woman. It shows
there are bits of him we don't know. Things may be awfully wrong. It's
all such a breach of trust! I resent it."
I was appalled by these stiff, dignified gestures that seemed to be
plucking Chris's soul from his body, tormented though it was by this
unknown calamity.
"But Chris is ill!" I cried.
She stared at me.
"You're saying what she said."
Indeed, there seemed no better words than those Mrs. Grey had used. I
repeated:
"But he is ill!"
She laid her face against her arms again.
"What does that matter?" she wailed. "If he could send that telegram, he
is no longer ours."
CHAPTER II
I was sorry the next morning that the post comes too late at Harrowweald
to be brought up with the morning tea and waits for one at the breakfast
table; for under Kitty's fixed gaze I had to open a letter which bore
the Boulogne postmark and was addressed in the writing of Frank Baldry,
Chris's cousin, who is in the church. He wrote:
         DEAR JENNY:
     You will have to break it to Kitty and try to make her take it as
     quietly as possible. This sentence will sound ominous as a start,
     but I'm so full of the extraordinary thing that has happened to
     Chris that I feel as if every living creature was in possession of
     the facts. I don't know how much you know about it, so I'd better
     begin at the beginning. Last Thursday I got a wire from Chris,
     saying that he had had concussion, though not seriously, and was in
     a hospital about a mile from Boulogne, where he would be glad to
     see me. It struck me as odd that it had been sent to Ollenshaws,
     where I was curate fifteen years ago. Fortunately, I have always
     kept in touch with Sumpter, whom I regard as a specimen of the very
     best type of country clergymen, and he forwarded it without
     unnecessary delay. I started that evening, and looked hard for you
     and Kitty on the boat; but came to the conclusion I should probably
     find you at the hospital.
