From Garberville, where we ate eel to repletion and got acquainted with
the aborigines, we drove down the Eel River Valley for two days through
the most unthinkably glorious body of redwood timber to be seen anywhere
in California.  From Dyerville on to Eureka, we caught glimpses of
railroad construction and of great concrete bridges in the course of
building, which advertised that at least Humboldt County was going to be
linked to the rest of the world.
We still consider our trip is just begun.  As soon as this is mailed from
Eureka, it's heigh ho! for the horses and pull on.  We shall continue up
the coast, turn in for Hoopa Reservation and the gold mines, and shoot
down the Trinity and Klamath rivers in Indian canoes to Requa.  After
that, we shall go on through Del Norte County and into Oregon.  The trip
so far has justified us in taking the attitude that we won't go home
until the winter rains drive us in.  And, finally, I am going to try the
experiment of putting the Outlaw in the lead and relegating Prince to his
old position in the near wheel.  I won't need any pebbles then.
NOTHING THAT EVER CAME TO ANYTHING
It was at Quito, the mountain capital of Ecuador, that the following
passage at correspondence took place.  Having occasion to buy a pair of
shoes in a shop six feet by eight in size and with walls three feet
thick, I noticed a mangy leopard skin on the floor.  I had no Spanish.
The shop-keeper had no English.  But I was an adept at sign language.  I
wanted to know where I should go to buy leopard skins.  On my scribble-
pad I drew the interesting streets of a city.  Then I drew a small shop,
which, after much effort, I persuaded the proprietor into recognising as
his shop.  Next, I indicated in my drawing that on the many streets there
were many shops.  And, finally, I made myself into a living interrogation
mark, pointing all the while from the mangy leopard skin to the many
shops I had sketched.
But the proprietor failed to follow me.  So did his assistant.  The
street came in to help--that is, as many as could crowd into the six-by-
eight shop; while those that could not force their way in held an
overflow meeting on the sidewalk.  The proprietor and the rest took turns
at talking to me in rapid-fire Spanish, and, from the expressions on
their faces, all concluded that I was remarkably stupid.  Again I went
through my programme, pointing on the sketch from the one shop to the
many shops, pointing out that in this particular shop was one leopard
skin, and then questing interrogatively with my pencil among all the
shops.  All regarded me in blank silence, until I saw comprehension
suddenly dawn on the face of a small boy.
"Tigres montanya!" he cried.
This appealed to me as mountain tigers, namely, leopards; and in token
that he understood, the boy made signs for me to follow him, which I
obeyed.  He led me for a quarter of a mile, and paused before the doorway
of a large building where soldiers slouched on sentry duty and in and out
of which went other soldiers.  Motioning for me to remain, he ran inside.
