"How interesting! I never knew you kept a ghost. Tell me all about it,
Sir Jasper, and soothe our nerves by satisfying our curiosity," she said
in her half-persuasive, half-commanding way, as she seated herself on
Lady Treherne's sacred sofa.
"There's not much to tell, except that this place used to be an abbey,
in fact as well as in name. An ancestor founded it, and for years the
monks led a jolly life here, as one may see, for the cellar is twice as
large as the chapel, and much better preserved. But another ancestor, a
gay and gallant baron, took a fancy to the site for his castle, and, in
spite of prayers, anathemas, and excommunication, he turned the poor
fellows out, pulled down the abbey, and built this fine old place. Abbot
Boniface, as he left his abbey, uttered a heavy curse on all who should
live here, and vowed to haunt us till the last Treherne vanished from
the face of the earth. With this amiable threat the old party left Baron
Roland to his doom, and died as soon as he could in order to begin his
cheerful mission."
"Did he haunt the place?" asked Blanche eagerly.
"Yes, most faithfully from that time to this. Some say many of the monks
still glide about the older parts of the abbey, for Roland spared the
chapel and the north gallery which joined it to the modern building.
Poor fellows, they are welcome, and once a year they shall have a chance
to warm their ghostly selves by the great fires always kindled at
Christmas in the gallery."
"Mrs. Benson once told me that when the ghost walked, it was a sure sign
of a coming death in the family. Is that true?" asked Rose, whose
curiosity was excited by the expression of Octavia's face, and a certain
uneasiness in Sir Jasper's manner in spite of his merry mood.
"There is a stupid superstition of that sort in the family, but no one
except the servants believes it, of course. In times of illness some
silly maid or croaking old woman can easily fancy they see a phantom,
and, if death comes, they are sure of the ghostly warning. Benson saw
it before my father died, and old Roger, the night my uncle was seized
with apoplexy. Patty will never be made to believe that this warning
does not forebode the death of Maurice or myself, for the gallant
spirit leaves the ladies of our house to depart in peace. How does it
strike you, Cousin?"
Turning as he spoke, Sir Jasper glanced at Treherne, who had entered
while he spoke.
"I am quite skeptical and indifferent to the whole affair, but I agree
with Octavia that it is best to say nothing to my aunt if she is
ignorant of the matter. Her rooms are a long way off, and perhaps she
did not hear the confusion."
"You seem to hear everything; you were not with us when I said that."
And Octavia looked up with an air of surprise.
