No; I can't harness up one horse.  But I can four, which compels me to
back up again to get to my beginning.  Having selected Sonoma Valley for
our abiding place, Charmian and I decided it was about time we knew what
we had in our own county and the neighbouring ones.  How to do it, was
the first question.  Among our many weaknesses is the one of being old-
fashioned.  We don't mix with gasolene very well.  And, as true sailors
should, we naturally gravitate toward horses.  Being one of those lucky
individuals who carries his office under his hat, I should have to take a
typewriter and a load of books along.  This put saddle-horses out of the
running.  Charmian suggested driving a span.  She had faith in me;
besides, she could drive a span herself.  But when I thought of the many
mountains to cross, and of crossing them for three months with a poor
tired span, I vetoed the proposition and said we'd have to come back to
gasolene after all.  This she vetoed just as emphatically, and a deadlock
obtained until I received inspiration.
"Why not drive four horses?" I said.
"But you don't know how to drive four horses," was her objection.
I threw my chest out and my shoulders back.  "What man has done, I can
do," I proclaimed grandly.  "And please don't forget that when we sailed
on the _Snark_ I knew nothing of navigation, and that I taught myself as
I sailed."
"Very well," she said.  (And there's faith for you! )  "They shall be
four saddle horses, and we'll strap our saddles on behind the rig."
It was my turn to object.  "Our saddle horses are not broken to harness."
"Then break them."
And what I knew about horses, much less about breaking them, was just
about as much as any sailor knows.  Having been kicked, bucked off,
fallen over backward upon, and thrown out and run over, on very numerous
occasions, I had a mighty vigorous respect for horses; but a wife's faith
must be lived up to, and I went at it.
King was a polo pony from St. Louis, and Prince a many-gaited love-horse
from Pasadena.  The hardest thing was to get them to dig in and pull.
They rollicked along on the levels and galloped down the hills, but when
they struck an up-grade and felt the weight of the breaking-cart, they
stopped and turned around and looked at me.  But I passed them, and my
troubles began.  Milda was fourteen years old, an unadulterated broncho,
and in temperament was a combination of mule and jack-rabbit blended
equally.  If you pressed your hand on her flank and told her to get over,
she lay down on you.  If you got her by the head and told her to back,
she walked forward over you.  And if you got behind her and shoved and
told her to "Giddap!" she sat down on you.  Also, she wouldn't walk.  For
endless weary miles I strove with her, but never could I get her to walk
a step.  Finally, she was a manger-glutton.  No matter how near or far
from the stable, when six o'clock came around she bolted for home and
never missed the directest cross-road.  Many times I rejected her.
