Mrs. Archie, as Mrs. Kronborg said, "liked to gad." She liked to have
her house clean, empty, dark, locked, and to be out of it--anywhere. A
church social, a prayer meeting, a ten-cent show; she seemed to have no
preference. When there was nowhere else to go, she used to sit for hours
in Mrs. Smiley's millinery and notion store, listening to the talk of
the women who came in, watching them while they tried on hats, blinking
at them from her corner with her sharp, restless little eyes. She never
talked much herself, but she knew all the gossip of the town and she had
a sharp ear for racy anecdotes--"traveling men's stories," they used to
be called in Moonstone. Her clicking laugh sounded like a typewriting
machine in action, and, for very pointed stories, she had a little
screech.
Mrs. Archie had been Mrs. Archie for only six years, and when she was
Belle White she was one of the "pretty" girls in Lansing, Michigan. She
had then a train of suitors. She could truly remind Archie that "the
boys hung around her." They did. They thought her very spirited and were
always saying, "Oh, that Belle White, she's a case!" She used to play
heavy practical jokes which the young men thought very clever. Archie
was considered the most promising young man in "the young crowd," so
Belle selected him. She let him see, made him fully aware, that she had
selected him, and Archie was the sort of boy who could not withstand
such enlightenment. Belle's family were sorry for him. On his wedding
day her sisters looked at the big, handsome boy--he was twenty-four--as
he walked down the aisle with his bride, and then they looked at each
other. His besotted confidence, his sober, radiant face, his gentle,
protecting arm, made them uncomfortable. Well, they were glad that he
was going West at once, to fulfill his doom where they would not be
onlookers. Anyhow, they consoled themselves, they had got Belle off
their hands.
More than that, Belle seemed to have got herself off her hands. Her
reputed prettiness must have been entirely the result of determination,
of a fierce little ambition. Once she had married, fastened herself on
some one, come to port,--it vanished like the ornamental plumage which
drops away from some birds after the mating season. The one aggressive
action of her life was over. She began to shrink in face and stature. Of
her harum-scarum spirit there was nothing left but the little screech.
Within a few years she looked as small and mean as she was.
Thor's chariot crept along. Thea approached the house unwillingly. She
didn't care about the strawberries, anyhow. She had come only because
she did not want to hurt Dr. Archie's feelings. She not only disliked
Mrs. Archie, she was a little afraid of her. While Thea was getting the
heavy baby-buggy through the iron gate she heard some one call, "Wait a
minute!" and Mrs. Archie came running around the house from the back
door, her apron over her head. She came to help with the buggy, because
she was afraid the wheels might scratch the paint off the gateposts. She
was a skinny little woman with a great pile of frizzy light hair on a
small head.
