When Hector heard this he was glad, and went about among the Trojan
ranks holding his spear by the middle to keep them back, and they all
sat down at his bidding: but the Achaeans still aimed at him with
stones and arrows, till Agamemnon shouted to them saying, "Hold,
Argives, shoot not, sons of the Achaeans; Hector desires to speak."
They ceased taking aim and were still, whereon Hector spoke. "Hear from
my mouth," said he, "Trojans and Achaeans, the saying of Alexandrus,
through whom this quarrel has come about. He bids the Trojans and
Achaeans lay their armour upon the ground, while he and Menelaus fight
in the midst of you for Helen and all her wealth. Let him who shall be
victorious and prove to be the better man take the woman and all she
has, to bear them to his own home, but let the rest swear to a solemn
covenant of peace."
Thus he spoke, and they all held their peace, till Menelaus of the loud
battle-cry addressed them. "And now," he said, "hear me too, for it is
I who am the most aggrieved. I deem that the parting of Achaeans and
Trojans is at hand, as well it may be, seeing how much have suffered
for my quarrel with Alexandrus and the wrong he did me. Let him who
shall die, die, and let the others fight no more. Bring, then, two
lambs, a white ram and a black ewe, for Earth and Sun, and we will
bring a third for Jove. Moreover, you shall bid Priam come, that he may
swear to the covenant himself; for his sons are high-handed and ill to
trust, and the oaths of Jove must not be transgressed or taken in vain.
Young men's minds are light as air, but when an old man comes he looks
before and after, deeming that which shall be fairest upon both sides."
The Trojans and Achaeans were glad when they heard this, for they
thought that they should now have rest. They backed their chariots
toward the ranks, got out of them, and put off their armour, laying it
down upon the ground; and the hosts were near to one another with a
little space between them. Hector sent two messengers to the city to
bring the lambs and to bid Priam come, while Agamemnon told Talthybius
to fetch the other lamb from the ships, and he did as Agamemnon had
said.
Meanwhile Iris went to Helen in the form of her sister-in-law, wife of
the son of Antenor, for Helicaon, son of Antenor, had married Laodice,
the fairest of Priam's daughters. She found her in her own room,
working at a great web of purple linen, on which she was embroidering
the battles between Trojans and Achaeans, that Mars had made them fight
for her sake. Iris then came close up to her and said, "Come hither,
child, and see the strange doings of the Trojans and Achaeans. Till now
they have been warring upon the plain, mad with lust of battle, but now
they have left off fighting, and are leaning upon their shields,
sitting still with their spears planted beside them. Alexandrus and
Menelaus are going to fight about yourself, and you are to be the wife
of him who is the victor."
