'It is nearly time for your return, Rosa.  We have not had a very happy
walk, have we?'
'A happy walk?  A detestably unhappy walk, sir.  If I go up-stairs the
moment I get in and cry till I can't take my dancing lesson, you are
responsible, mind!'
'Let us be friends, Rosa.'
'Ah!' cries Rosa, shaking her head and bursting into real tears, 'I wish
we _could_ be friends!  It's because we can't be friends, that we try one
another so.  I am a young little thing, Eddy, to have an old heartache;
but I really, really have, sometimes.  Don't be angry.  I know you have
one yourself too often.  We should both of us have done better, if What
is to be had been left What might have been.  I am quite a little serious
thing now, and not teasing you.  Let each of us forbear, this one time,
on our own account, and on the other's!'
Disarmed by this glimpse of a woman's nature in the spoilt child, though
for an instant disposed to resent it as seeming to involve the enforced
infliction of himself upon her, Edwin Drood stands watching her as she
childishly cries and sobs, with both hands to the handkerchief at her
eyes, and then--she becoming more composed, and indeed beginning in her
young inconstancy to laugh at herself for having been so moved--leads her
to a seat hard by, under the elm-trees.
                        [Picture: Under the trees]
'One clear word of understanding, Pussy dear.  I am not clever out of my
own line--now I come to think of it, I don't know that I am particularly
clever in it--but I want to do right.  There is not--there may be--I
really don't see my way to what I want to say, but I must say it before
we part--there is not any other young--'
'O no, Eddy!  It's generous of you to ask me; but no, no, no!'
They have come very near to the Cathedral windows, and at this moment the
organ and the choir sound out sublimely.  As they sit listening to the
solemn swell, the confidence of last night rises in young Edwin Drood's
mind, and he thinks how unlike this music is to that discordance.
'I fancy I can distinguish Jack's voice,' is his remark in a low tone in
connection with the train of thought.
'Take me back at once, please,' urges his Affianced, quickly laying her
light hand upon his wrist.  'They will all be coming out directly; let us
get away.  O, what a resounding chord!  But don't let us stop to listen
to it; let us get away!'
Her hurry is over as soon as they have passed out of the Close.  They go
arm-in-arm now, gravely and deliberately enough, along the old
High-street, to the Nuns' House.  At the gate, the street being within
sight empty, Edwin bends down his face to Rosebud's.
She remonstrates, laughing, and is a childish schoolgirl again.
'Eddy, no!  I'm too sticky to be kissed.  But give me your hand, and I'll
blow a kiss into that.'
