He passed other shops--a paint-shop, a wagon-shop, a plumbing shop, a
carpenter-shop. While he glanced at the last, a hybrid machine,
half-auto, half-truck, passed him at speed and took the main road for
the railroad station eight miles away. He knew it for the morning
butter-truck freighting from the separator house the daily output of
the dairy.
The Big House was the hub of the ranch organization. Half a mile from
it, it was encircled by the various ranch centers. Dick Forrest,
saluting continually his people, passed at a gallop the dairy center,
which was almost a sea of buildings with batteries of silos and with
litter carriers emerging on overhead tracks and automatically dumping
into waiting manure-spreaders. Several times, business-looking men,
college-marked, astride horses or driving carts, stopped him and
conferred with him. They were foremen, heads of departments, and they
were as brief and to the point as was he. The last of them, astride a
Palomina three-year-old that was as graceful and wild as a half-broken
Arab, was for riding by with a bare salute, but was stopped by his
employer.
"Good morning, Mr. Hennessy, and how soon will she be ready for Mrs.
Forrest?" Dick Forrest asked.
"I'd like another week," was Hennessy's answer. "She's well broke now,
just the way Mrs. Forrest wanted, but she's over-strung and sensitive
and I'd like the week more to set her in her ways."
Forrest nodded concurrence, and Hennessy, who was the veterinary, went
on:
"There are two drivers in the alfalfa gang I'd like to send down the
hill."
"What's the matter with them?"
"One, a new man, Hopkins, is an ex-soldier. He may know government
mules, but he doesn't know Shires."
Forrest nodded.
"The other has worked for us two years, but he's drinking now, and he
takes his hang-overs out on his horses--"
"That's Smith, old-type American, smooth-shaven, with a cast in his
left eye?" Forrest interrupted.
The veterinary nodded.
"I've been watching him," Forrest concluded. "He was a good man at
first, but he's slipped a cog recently. Sure, send him down the hill.
And send that other fellow--Hopkins, you said?--along with him. By the
way, Mr. Hennessy." As he spoke, Forrest drew forth his pad book, tore
off the last note scribbled, and crumpled it in his hand. "You've a new
horse-shoer in the shop. How does he strike you?"
"He's too new to make up my mind yet."
"Well, send him down the hill along with the other two. He can't take
your orders. I observed him just now fitting a shoe to old Alden Bessie
by rasping off half an inch of the toe of her hoof."
"He knew better."
"Send him down the hill," Forrest repeated, as he tickled his champing
mount with the slightest of spur-tickles and shot her out along the
road, sidling, head-tossing, and attempting to rear.
Much he saw that pleased him. Once, he murmured aloud, "A fat land, a
fat land." Divers things he saw that did not please him and that won a
note in his scribble pad. Completing the circle about the Big House and
riding beyond the circle half a mile to an isolated group of sheds and
corrals, he reached the objective of the ride: the hospital. Here he
found but two young heifers being tested for tuberculosis, and a
magnificent Duroc Jersey boar in magnificent condition. Weighing fully
six hundred pounds, its bright eyes, brisk movements, and sheen of hair
shouted out that there was nothing the matter with it. Nevertheless,
according to the ranch practice, being a fresh importation from Iowa,
it was undergoing the regular period of quarantine. Burgess Premier was
its name in the herd books of the association, age two years, and it
had cost Forrest five hundred dollars laid down on the ranch.
