Two years later, and for the last time, Koolau crawled into a thicket and
lay down among the _ti_-leaves and wild ginger blossoms.  Free he had
lived, and free he was dying.  A slight drizzle of rain began to fall,
and he drew a ragged blanket about the distorted wreck of his limbs.  His
body was covered with an oilskin coat.  Across his chest he laid his
Mauser rifle, lingering affectionately for a moment to wipe the dampness
from the barrel.  The hand with which he wiped had no fingers left upon
it with which to pull the trigger.
He closed his eyes, for, from the weakness in his body and the fuzzy
turmoil in his brain, he knew that his end was near.  Like a wild animal
he had crept into hiding to die.  Half-conscious, aimless and wandering,
he lived back in his life to his early manhood on Niihau.  As life faded
and the drip of the rain grew dim in his ears it seemed to him that he
was once more in the thick of the horse-breaking, with raw colts rearing
and bucking under him, his stirrups tied together beneath, or charging
madly about the breaking corral and driving the helping cowboys over the
rails.  The next instant, and with seeming naturalness, he found himself
pursuing the wild bulls of the upland pastures, roping them and leading
them down to the valleys.  Again the sweat and dust of the branding pen
stung his eyes and bit his nostrils.
All his lusty, whole-bodied youth was his, until the sharp pangs of
impending dissolution brought him back.  He lifted his monstrous hands
and gazed at them in wonder.  But how?  Why?  Why should the wholeness of
that wild youth of his change to this?  Then he remembered, and once
again, and for a moment, he was Koolau, the leper.  His eyelids fluttered
wearily down and the drip of the rain ceased in his ears.  A prolonged
trembling set up in his body.  This, too, ceased.  He half-lifted his
head, but it fell back.  Then his eyes opened, and did not close.  His
last thought was of his Mauser, and he pressed it against his chest with
his folded, fingerless hands.
GOOD-BYE, JACK
Hawaii is a queer place.  Everything socially is what I may call topsy-
turvy.  Not but what things are correct.  They are almost too much so.
But still things are sort of upside down.  The most ultra-exclusive set
there is the "Missionary Crowd."  It comes with rather a shock to learn
that in Hawaii the obscure martyrdom-seeking missionary sits at the head
of the table of the moneyed aristocracy.  But it is true.  The humble New
Englanders who came out in the third decade of the nineteenth century,
came for the lofty purpose of teaching the kanakas the true religion, the
worship of the one only genuine and undeniable God.  So well did they
succeed in this, and also in civilizing the kanaka, that by the second or
third generation he was practically extinct.  This being the fruit of the
seed of the Gospel, the fruit of the seed of the missionaries (the sons
and the grandsons) was the possession of the islands themselves,--of the
land, the ports, the town sites, and the sugar plantations:  The
missionary who came to give the bread of life remained to gobble up the
whole heathen feast.
