"We sit in here," said Helen, opening the door of the saloon.
"You play?" said Mrs. Dalloway to Mrs. Ambrose, taking up the score of
_Tristan_ which lay on the table.
"My niece does," said Helen, laying her hand on Rachel's shoulder.
"Oh, how I envy you!" Clarissa addressed Rachel for the first time.
"D'you remember this? Isn't it divine?" She played a bar or two with
ringed fingers upon the page.
"And then Tristan goes like this, and Isolde--oh!--it's all too
thrilling! Have you been to Bayreuth?"
"No, I haven't," said Rachel. `"Then that's still to come. I shall never
forget my first _Parsifal_--a grilling August day, and those fat old
German women, come in their stuffy high frocks, and then the dark
theatre, and the music beginning, and one couldn't help sobbing. A kind
man went and fetched me water, I remember; and I could only cry on
his shoulder! It caught me here" (she touched her throat). "It's like
nothing else in the world! But where's your piano?" "It's in another
room," Rachel explained.
"But you will play to us?" Clarissa entreated. "I can't imagine anything
nicer than to sit out in the moonlight and listen to music--only that
sounds too like a schoolgirl! You know," she said, turning to Helen, "I
don't think music's altogether good for people--I'm afraid not."
"Too great a strain?" asked Helen.
"Too emotional, somehow," said Clarissa. "One notices it at once when a
boy or girl takes up music as a profession. Sir William Broadley told me
just the same thing. Don't you hate the kind of attitudes people go into
over Wagner--like this--" She cast her eyes to the ceiling, clasped her
hands, and assumed a look of intensity. "It really doesn't mean that
they appreciate him; in fact, I always think it's the other way round.
The people who really care about an art are always the least affected.
D'you know Henry Philips, the painter?" she asked.
"I have seen him," said Helen.
"To look at, one might think he was a successful stockbroker, and not
one of the greatest painters of the age. That's what I like."
"There are a great many successful stockbrokers, if you like looking at
them," said Helen.
Rachel wished vehemently that her aunt would not be so perverse.
"When you see a musician with long hair, don't you know instinctively
that he's bad?" Clarissa asked, turning to Rachel. "Watts and
Joachim--they looked just like you and me."
"And how much nicer they'd have looked with curls!" said Helen. "The
question is, are you going to aim at beauty or are you not?"
"Cleanliness!" said Clarissa, "I do want a man to look clean!"
"By cleanliness you really mean well-cut clothes," said Helen.
"There's something one knows a gentleman by," said Clarissa, "but one
can't say what it is."
"Take my husband now, does he look like a gentleman?"
The question seemed to Clarissa in extraordinarily bad taste. "One of
the things that can't be said," she would have put it. She could find no
answer, but a laugh.
