Although the convicts laughed at Akimitch, and pretended that he was a
little mad, they esteemed him all the same by reason of his cleverness
and his precision.
He knew all possible trades, and could do whatever you wished. He was
cobbler, bootmaker, painter, carver, gilder, and locksmith. He had
acquired these talents at the convict prison, for it was sufficient for
him to see an object, in order to imitate it. He sold in the town, or
caused to be sold, baskets, lanterns, and toys. Thanks to his work, he
had always some money, which he employed in buying shirts, pillows, and
so on. He had himself made a mattress, and as he slept in the same room
as myself he was very useful to me at the beginning of my imprisonment.
Before leaving prison to go to work, the convicts were drawn up in two
ranks before the orderly-room, surrounded by an escort of soldiers with
loaded muskets. An officer of Engineers then arrived, with the
superintendent of the works and a few soldiers, who watched the
operations. The superintendent counted the convicts, and sent them in
bands to the places where they were to be occupied.
I went with some other prisoners to the workshop of the Engineers--a low
brick house built in the midst of a large court-yard full of materials.
There was a forge there, and carpenters', locksmiths', and painters'
workshops. Akimitch was assigned to the last. He boiled the oil for the
varnish, mixed the colours, and painted tables and other pieces of
furniture in imitation walnut.
While I was waiting to have additional irons put on, I communicated to
him my first impressions.
"Yes," he said, "they do not like nobles, above all those who have been
condemned for political offences, and they take a pleasure in wounding
their feelings. Is it not intelligible? We do not belong to them, we do
not suit them. They have all been serfs or soldiers. Tell me what
sympathy can they have for us. The life here is hard, but it is nothing
in comparison with that of the disciplinary companies in Russia. There
it is hell. The men who have been in them praise our convict prison. It
is paradise compared to their purgatory. Not that the work is harder. It
is said that with the convicts of the first class the administration--it
is not exclusively military as it is here--acts quite differently from
what it does towards us. They have their little houses there I have been
told, for I have not seen for myself. They wear no uniform, their heads
are not shaved, though, in my opinion, uniforms and shaved heads are not
bad things; it is neater, and also it is more agreeable to the eye, only
these men do not like it. Oh, what a Babel this place is! Soldiers,
Circassians, old believers, peasants who have left their wives and
families, Jews, Gypsies, people come from Heaven knows where, and all
this variety of men are to live quietly together side by side, eat from
the same dish, and sleep on the same planks. Not a moment's liberty, no
enjoyment except in secret; they must hide their money in their boots;
and then always the convict prison at every moment--perpetually convict
prison! Involuntarily wild ideas come to one."
