No doubt Varvara Petrovna did very often hate him. But there was one
thing he had not discerned up to the end: that was that he had become
for her a son, her creation, even, one may say, her invention; he had
become flesh of her flesh, and she kept and supported him not simply
from "envy of his talents." And how wounded she must have been by such
suppositions! An inexhaustible love for him lay concealed in her heart
in the midst of continual hatred, jealousy, and contempt. She would not
let a speck of dust fall upon him, coddled him up for twenty-two years,
would not have slept for nights together if there were the faintest
breath against his reputation as a poet, a learned man, and a public
character. She had invented him, and had been the first to believe in
her own invention. He was, after a fashion, her day-dream.... But in
return she exacted a great deal from him, sometimes even slavishness. It
was incredible how long she harboured resentment. I have two anecdotes
to tell about that.
IV
On one occasion, just at the time when the first rumours of the
emancipation of the serfs were in the air, when all Russia was exulting
and making ready for a complete regeneration, Varvara Petrovna was
visited by a baron from Petersburg, a man of the highest connections,
and very closely associated with the new reform. Varvara Petrovna prized
such visits highly, as her connections in higher circles had grown
weaker and weaker since the death of her husband, and had at last ceased
altogether. The baron spent an hour drinking tea with her. There was no
one else present but Stepan Trofimovitch, whom Varvara Petrovna invited
and exhibited. The baron had heard something about him before or
affected to have done so, but paid little attention to him at tea.
Stepan Trofimovitch of course was incapable of making a social blunder,
and his manners were most elegant. Though I believe he was by no means
of exalted origin, yet it happened that he had from earliest childhood
been brought up in a Moscow household--of high rank, and consequently
was well bred. He spoke French like a Parisian. Thus the baron was to
have seen from the first glance the sort of people with whom Varvara
Petrovna surrounded herself, even in provincial seclusion. But things
did not fall out like this. When the baron positively asserted the
absolute truth of the rumours of the great reform, which were then
only just beginning to be heard, Stepan Trofimovitch could not contain
himself, and suddenly shouted "Hurrah!" and even made some gesticulation
indicative of delight. His ejaculation was not over-loud and quite
polite, his delight was even perhaps premeditated, and his gesture
purposely studied before the looking-glass half an hour before tea. But
something must have been amiss with it, for the baron permitted himself
a faint smile, though he, at once, with extraordinary courtesy, put in
a phrase concerning the universal and befitting emotion of all Russian
hearts in view of the great event. Shortly afterwards he took his
leave and at parting did not forget to hold out two fingers to Stepan
Trofimovitch. On returning to the drawing-room Varvara Petrovna was
at first silent for two or three minutes, and seemed to be looking for
something on the table. Then she turned to Stepan Trofimovitch, and with
pale face and flashing eyes she hissed in a whisper:
