Wealdstone is not, in its way, a bad place; it lies in the lap of open
country, and at the end of every street rise the green hills of Harrow
and the spires of Harrow School. But all the streets are long and red
and freely articulated with railway arches, and factories spoil the
skyline with red, angular chimneys, and in front of the shops stood
little women with backs ridged by cheap stays, who tapped their upper
lips with their forefingers and made other feeble, doubtful gestures,
as though they wanted to buy something and knew that if they did they
would have to starve some other appetite. When we asked them the way
they turned to us faces sour with thrift. It was a town of people who
could not do as they liked.
And here Margaret lived in a long road of red-brick boxes, flecked here
and there with the pink blur of almond-blossom, which debouched in a
flat field where green grass rose up rank through clay mold blackened by
coal-dust from the railway. Mariposa, which was the last house in the
road, did not even have an almond-tree. In the front garden, which
seemed to be imperfectly reclaimed from the greasy field, yellow crocus
and some sodden squills just winked, and the back, where a man was
handling a spade without mastery, presented the austere appearance of an
allotment. And not only did Margaret live in this place; she also
belonged to it. When she opened the door she gazed at me with watering
eyes, and in perplexity stroked her disordered hair with a floury hand.
Her face was sallow with heat, and beads of perspiration glittered in
the deep, dragging line between her nostrils and the corners of her
mouth. She said:
"He's home?"
I nodded.
She pulled me inside and slammed the door.
"Is he well?" she asked.
"Quite," I answered.
Her tense stare relaxed. She rubbed her hands on her overall and said:
"You'll excuse me. It's the girl's day out. If you'll step into the
parlor--"
So in her parlor I sat and told her how it was with Chris and how
greatly he desired to see her. And as I spoke of his longing I turned my
eyes away from her, because she was sitting on a sofa, upholstered in
velveteen of a sickish green, which was so low that her knees stuck up
in front of her, and she had to clasp them with her seamed, floury
hands. I could see that the skin of her face was damp. And my voice
failed me as I looked round the room, because I saw just what Margaret
had seen that evening fifteen years ago when she had laid her cheek to
the parlor window at Monkey Island. There was the enlarged photograph of
Margaret's mother over the mantelpiece, on the walls were the views of
Tintern Abbey framed in red plush, between the rickety legs of the china
cupboard was the sewing-machine, and tucked into the corner between my
chair and the fender were a pair of carpet slippers. All her life long
Margaret, who in her time had partaken of the supreme dignity of a
requited love, had lived with men who wore carpet slippers in the house.
I turned my eyes away again, and this time looked down the garden at the
figure that was not so much digging as exhibiting his incapacity to
deal with a spade. He was sneezing very frequently, and his sneezes made
the unbuckled straps at the back of his waistcoat wag violently. I
supposed him to be Mr. William Grey.
