But even Peisistratus has not been suffered to remain in possession
of the credit, and we cannot help feeling the force of the following
observations:--
"There are several incidental circumstances which, in our opinion,
throw some suspicion over the whole history of the Peisistratid
compilation, at least over the theory that the Iliad was cast into
its present stately and harmonious form by the directions of the
Athenian ruler. If the great poets, who flourished at the bright
period of Grecian song, of which, alas! we have inherited little more
than the fame, and the faint echo; if Stesichorus, Anacreon, and
Simonides were employed in the noble task of compiling the Iliad and
Odyssey, so much must have been done to arrange, to connect, to
harmonize, that it is almost incredible that stronger marks of
Athenian manufacture should not remain. Whatever occasional anomalies
may be detected, anomalies which no doubt arise out of our own
ignorance of the language of the Homeric age; however the irregular
use of the digamma may have perplexed our Bentleys, to whom the name
of Helen is said to have caused as much disquiet and distress as the
fair one herself among the heroes of her age; however Mr. Knight may
have failed in reducing the Homeric language to its primitive form;
however, finally, the Attic dialect may not have assumed all its more
marked and distinguishing characteristics:--still it is difficult to
suppose that the language, particularly in the joinings and
transitions, and connecting parts, should not more clearly betray the
incongruity between the more ancient and modern forms of expression.
It is not quite in character with such a period to imitate an antique
style, in order to piece out an imperfect poem in the character of
the original, as Sir Walter Scott has done in his continuation of Sir
Tristram.
"If, however, not even such faint and indistinct traces of Athenian
compilation are discoverable in the language of the poems, the total
absence of Athenian national feeling is perhaps no less worthy of
observation. In later, and it may fairly be suspected in earlier
times, the Athenians were more than ordinarily jealous of the fame of
their ancestors. But, amid all the traditions of the glories of early
Greece embodied in the Iliad, the Athenians play a most subordinate
and insignificant part. Even the few passages which relate to their
ancestors, Mr. Knight suspects to be interpolations. It is possible,
indeed, that in its leading outline, the Iliad may be true to
historic fact; that in the great maritime expedition of western
Greece against the rival and half-kindred empire of the
Laomedontiadae, the chieftain of Thessaly, from his valour and the
number of his forces, may have been the most important ally of the
Peloponnesian sovereign: the pre-eminent value of the ancient poetry
on the Trojan war may thus have forced the national feeling of the
Athenians to yield to their taste. The songs which spoke of their own
great ancestor were, no doubt, of far inferior sublimity and
popularity, or, at first sight, a Theseid would have been much more
likely to have emanated from an Athenian synod of compilers of
ancient song, than an Achilleid or an Odysseid. Could France have
given birth to a Tasso, Tancred would have been the hero of the
Jerusalem. If, however, the Homeric ballads, as they are sometimes
called, which related the wrath of Achilles, with all its direful
consequences, were so far superior to the rest of the poetic cycle,
as to admit no rivalry,--it is still surprising, that throughout the
whole poem the callida junctura should never betray the workmanship
of an Athenian hand; and that the national spirit of a race, who have
at a later period not inaptly been compared to our self-admiring
neighbours, the French, should submit with lofty self-denial to the
almost total exclusion of their own ancestors--or, at least, to the
questionable dignity of only having produced a leader tolerably
skilled in the military tactics of his age."
