But that which I was too vain of was my ruin, or rather my vanity was
the cause of it.  The lady in the house where I was had two sons, young
gentlemen of very promising parts and of extraordinary behaviour, and
it was my misfortune to be very well with them both, but they managed
themselves with me in a quite different manner.
The eldest, a gay gentleman that knew the town as well as the country,
and though he had levity enough to do an ill-natured thing, yet had too
much judgment of things to pay too dear for his pleasures; he began
with the unhappy snare to all women, viz. taking notice upon all
occasions how pretty I was, as he called it, how agreeable, how
well-carriaged, and the like; and this he contrived so subtly, as if he
had known as well how to catch a woman in his net as a partridge when
he went a-setting; for he would contrive to be talking this to his
sisters when, though I was not by, yet when he knew I was not far off
but that I should be sure to hear him.  His sisters would return softly
to him, 'Hush, brother, she will hear you; she is but in the next
room.'  Then he would put it off and talk softlier, as if he had not
known it, and begin to acknowledge he was wrong; and then, as if he had
forgot himself, he would speak aloud again, and I, that was so well
pleased to hear it, was sure to listen for it upon all occasions.
After he had thus baited his hook, and found easily enough the method
how to lay it in my way, he played an opener game; and one day, going
by his sister's chamber when I was there, doing something about
dressing her, he comes in with an air of gaiety.  'Oh, Mrs. Betty,'
said he to me, 'how do you do, Mrs. Betty?  Don't your cheeks burn,
Mrs. Betty?'  I made a curtsy and blushed, but said nothing.  'What
makes you talk so, brother?' says the lady.  'Why,' says he, 'we have
been talking of her below-stairs this half-hour.'  'Well,' says his
sister, 'you can say no harm of her, that I am sure, so 'tis no matter
what you have been talking about.' 'Nay,' says he, ''tis so far from
talking harm of her, that we have been talking a great deal of good,
and a great many fine things have been said of Mrs. Betty, I assure
you; and particularly, that she is the handsomest young woman in
Colchester; and, in short, they begin to toast her health in the town.'
'I wonder at you, brother,' says the sister.  'Betty wants but one
thing, but she had as good want everything, for the market is against
our sex just now; and if a young woman have beauty, birth, breeding,
wit, sense, manners, modesty, and all these to an extreme, yet if she
have not money, she's nobody, she had as good want them all for nothing
but money now recommends a woman; the men play the game all into their
own hands.'
