'Why?'
'Because if it was, I'd take the lead with you, Jack, and be as wise as
Begone, dull Care! that turned a young man gray, and Begone, dull Care!
that turned an old man to clay.--Halloa, Jack!  Don't drink.'
'Why not?'
'Asks why not, on Pussy's birthday, and no Happy returns proposed!
Pussy, Jack, and many of 'em!  Happy returns, I mean.'
Laying an affectionate and laughing touch on the boy's extended hand, as
if it were at once his giddy head and his light heart, Mr. Jasper drinks
the toast in silence.
'Hip, hip, hip, and nine times nine, and one to finish with, and all
that, understood.  Hooray, hooray, hooray!--And now, Jack, let's have a
little talk about Pussy.  Two pairs of nut-crackers?  Pass me one, and
take the other.'  Crack.  'How's Pussy getting on Jack?'
'With her music?  Fairly.'
'What a dreadfully conscientious fellow you are, Jack!  But _I_ know,
Lord bless you!  Inattentive, isn't she?'
'She can learn anything, if she will.'
'_If_ she will!  Egad, that's it.  But if she won't?'
Crack!--on Mr. Jasper's part.
'How's she looking, Jack?'
Mr. Jasper's concentrated face again includes the portrait as he returns:
'Very like your sketch indeed.'
'I _am_ a little proud of it,' says the young fellow, glancing up at the
sketch with complacency, and then shutting one eye, and taking a
corrected prospect of it over a level bridge of nut-crackers in the air:
'Not badly hit off from memory.  But I ought to have caught that
expression pretty well, for I have seen it often enough.'
Crack!--on Edwin Drood's part.
Crack!--on Mr. Jasper's part.
'In point of fact,' the former resumes, after some silent dipping among
his fragments of walnut with an air of pique, 'I see it whenever I go to
see Pussy.  If I don't find it on her face, I leave it there.--You know I
do, Miss Scornful Pert.  Booh!'  With a twirl of the nut-crackers at the
portrait.
Crack! crack! crack.  Slowly, on Mr. Jasper's part.
Crack.  Sharply on the part of Edwin Drood.
Silence on both sides.
'Have you lost your tongue, Jack?'
'Have you found yours, Ned?'
'No, but really;--isn't it, you know, after all--'
Mr. Jasper lifts his dark eyebrows inquiringly.
'Isn't it unsatisfactory to be cut off from choice in such a matter?
There, Jack!  I tell you!  If I could choose, I would choose Pussy from
all the pretty girls in the world.'
'But you have not got to choose.'
'That's what I complain of.  My dead and gone father and Pussy's dead and
gone father must needs marry us together by anticipation.  Why
the--Devil, I was going to say, if it had been respectful to their
memory--couldn't they leave us alone?'
'Tut, tut, dear boy,' Mr. Jasper remonstrates, in a tone of gentle
deprecation.
'Tut, tut?  Yes, Jack, it's all very well for _you_.  _You_ can take it
easily.  _Your_ life is not laid down to scale, and lined and dotted out
for you, like a surveyor's plan.  _You_ have no uncomfortable suspicion
that you are forced upon anybody, nor has anybody an uncomfortable
suspicion that she is forced upon you, or that you are forced upon her.
_You_ can choose for yourself.  Life, for _you_, is a plum with the
natural bloom on; it hasn't been over-carefully wiped off for _you_--'
