The Refractories were picking oakum, in a small room giving on a yard.
They sat in line on a form, with their backs to a window; before them, a
table, and their work.  The oldest Refractory was, say twenty; youngest
Refractory, say sixteen.  I have never yet ascertained in the course of
my uncommercial travels, why a Refractory habit should affect the tonsils
and uvula; but, I have always observed that Refractories of both sexes
and every grade, between a Ragged School and the Old Bailey, have one
voice, in which the tonsils and uvula gain a diseased ascendency.
‘Five pound indeed!  I hain’t a going fur to pick five pound,’ said the
Chief of the Refractories, keeping time to herself with her head and
chin.  ‘More than enough to pick what we picks now, in sich a place as
this, and on wot we gets here!’
(This was in acknowledgment of a delicate intimation that the amount of
work was likely to be increased.  It certainly was not heavy then, for
one Refractory had already done her day’s task—it was barely two
o’clock—and was sitting behind it, with a head exactly matching it.)
‘A pretty Ouse this is, matron, ain’t it?’ said Refractory Two, ‘where a
pleeseman’s called in, if a gal says a word!’
‘And wen you’re sent to prison for nothink or less!’ said the Chief,
tugging at her oakum as if it were the matron’s hair.  ‘But any place is
better than this; that’s one thing, and be thankful!’
A laugh of Refractories led by Oakum Head with folded arms—who originated
nothing, but who was in command of the skirmishers outside the
conversation.
‘If any place is better than this,’ said my brisk guide, in the calmest
manner, ‘it is a pity you left a good place when you had one.’
‘Ho, no, I didn’t, matron,’ returned the Chief, with another pull at her
oakum, and a very expressive look at the enemy’s forehead.  ‘Don’t say
that, matron, cos it’s lies!’
Oakum Head brought up the skirmishers again, skirmished, and retired.
‘And _I_ warn’t a going,’ exclaimed Refractory Two, ‘though I was in one
place for as long as four year—_I_ warn’t a going fur to stop in a place
that warn’t fit for me—there!  And where the family warn’t ’spectable
characters—there!  And where I fortunately or hunfort’nately, found that
the people warn’t what they pretended to make theirselves out to
be—there!  And where it wasn’t their faults, by chalks, if I warn’t made
bad and ruinated—Hah!’
During this speech, Oakum Head had again made a diversion with the
skirmishers, and had again withdrawn.
The Uncommercial Traveller ventured to remark that he supposed Chief
Refractory and Number One, to be the two young women who had been taken
before the magistrate?
‘Yes!’ said the Chief, ‘we har! and the wonder is, that a pleeseman an’t
’ad in now, and we took off agen.  You can’t open your lips here, without
a pleeseman.’
Number Two laughed (very uvularly), and the skirmishers followed suit.
