"Good," he said. "I'd better dress now, hadn't I?" He looked up the
stair-case, and would have gone up had I not held him back; for the
little room in the south wing, with the fishing-rods and the old books,
went in the rebuilding, absorbed by the black-and-white magnificence
that is Kitty's bedroom.
"Oh, I'll take you up," Kitty rang out efficiently. She pulled at his
coat-sleeve, so they started level on the lowest step. But as they went
up, the sense of his separateness beat her back; she lifted her arms as
though she struggled through a fog, and fell behind. When he reached the
top she was standing half-way down the stairs, her hands clasped under
her chin. But he did not see her. He was looking along the corridor and
saying, "This house is different." If the soul has to stay in its coffin
till the lead is struck asunder, in its captivity it speaks with such a
voice.
She braced herself with a gallant laugh.
"How you've forgotten!" she cried, and ran up to him, rattling her keys
and looking grave with housewifery, and I was left alone with the dusk
and the familiar things. The dusk flowed in wet and cool from the
garden, as if to put out the fire of confusion lighted on our
hearthstone, and the furniture, very visible through that soft evening
opacity with the observant brightness of old, well-polished wood, seemed
terribly aware. Strangeness had come into the house, and everything was
appalled by it, even time. For the moments dragged. It seemed to me,
half an hour later, that I had been standing for an infinite period in
the drawing-room, remembering that in the old days the blinds had never
been drawn in this room because old Mrs. Baldry had liked to see the
night gathering like a pool in the valley while the day lingered as a
white streak above the farthest hills, and perceiving in pain that the
heavy blue blinds that shroud the nine windows because a lost Zeppelin
sometimes clanks like a skeleton across the sky above us would make his
home seem even more like prison.
I began to say what was in my mind to Kitty when she came in, but she
moved past me, remote in preoccupation, and I was silent when I saw
that she was dressed in all respects like a bride. The gown she wore on
her wedding-day ten years ago had been cut and embroidered as this white
satin was; her hair had been coiled low on her neck, as it was now.
Around her throat were her pearls, and her longer chain of diamonds
dropped, looking cruelly bright, to her white, small breasts; because
she held some needlework to her bosom, I saw that her right hand was
stiff with rings and her left hand bare save for her wedding-ring. She
dropped her load of flannel on a work-table and sat down, spreading out
her skirts, in an arm-chair by the fire. With her lower lip thrust out,
as if she were considering a menu, she lowered her head and looked down
on herself. She frowned to see that the high lights on the satin shone
scarlet from the fire, that her flesh glowed like a rose, and she
changed her seat for a high-backed chair beneath the farthest
candle-sconce. There were green curtains close by, and now the lights on
her satin gown were green like cleft ice. She looked as cold as
moonlight, as virginity, but precious; the falling candle-light struck
her hair to bright, pure gold. So she waited for him.
