"I will never, never, abandon these bright hopes," he used to say to me
with shining eyes. Of these "bright hopes" he always spoke quietly, in
a blissful half-whisper, as it were secretly. He was rather tall, but
extremely thin and narrow-shouldered, and had extraordinarily lank hair
of a reddish hue. All Stepan Trofimovitch's condescending gibes at
some of his opinions he accepted mildly, answered him sometimes very
seriously, and often nonplussed him. Stepan Trofimovitch treated him
very kindly, and indeed he behaved like a father to all of us. "You are
all half-hearted chickens," he observed to Virginsky in joke. "All
who are like you, though in you, Virginsky, I have not observed that
narrow-mindedness I found in Petersburg, _chez ces seminaristes_. But
you're a half-hatched chicken all the same. Shatov would give anything
to hatch out, but he's half-hatched too."
"And I?" Liputin inquired.
"You're simply the golden mean which will get on anywhere in its own
way." Liputin was offended.
The story was told of Virginsky, and it was unhappily only too true,
that before his wife had spent a year in lawful wedlock with him she
announced that he was superseded and that she preferred Lebyadkin. This
Lebyadkin, a stranger to the town, turned out afterwards to be a very
dubious character, and not a retired captain as he represented himself
to be. He could do nothing but twist his moustache, drink, and chatter
the most inept nonsense that can possibly be imagined. This fellow, who
was utterly lacking in delicacy, at once settled in his house, glad to
live at another man's expense, ate and slept there and came, in the end,
to treating the master of the house with condescension. It was asserted
that when Virginsky's wife had announced to him that he was superseded
he said to her:
"My dear, hitherto I have only loved you, but now I respect you," but I
doubt whether this renunciation, worthy of ancient Rome, was ever really
uttered. On the contrary they say that he wept violently. A fortnight
after he was superseded, all of them, in a "family party," went one day
for a picnic to a wood outside the town to drink tea with their friends.
Virginsky was in a feverishly lively mood and took part in the dances.
But suddenly, without any preliminary quarrel, he seized the giant
Lebyadkin with both hands, by the hair, just as the latter was dancing
a can-can solo, pushed him down, and began dragging him along with
shrieks, shouts, and tears. The giant was so panic-stricken that he did
not attempt to defend himself, and hardly uttered a sound all the time
he was being dragged along. But afterwards he resented it with all the
heat of an honourable man. Virginsky spent a whole night on his knees
begging his wife's forgiveness. But this forgiveness was not granted, as
he refused to apologise to Lebyadkin; moreover, he was upbraided for the
meanness of his ideas and his foolishness, the latter charge based on
the fact that he knelt down in the interview with his wife. The captain
soon disappeared and did not reappear in our town till quite lately,
when he came with his sister, and with entirely different aims; but
of him later. It was no wonder that the poor young husband sought our
society and found comfort in it. But he never spoke of his home-life to
us. On one occasion only, returning with me from Stepan Trofimovitch's,
he made a remote allusion to his position, but clutching my hand at once
he cried ardently:
