From this I draw only this Conclusion, That the Winds are a Part of the
Works of God by Nature, in which he has been pleased to communicate less
of Demonstration to us than in other Cases; that the Particulars more
directly lead us to Speculations, and refer us to Infinite Power more
than the other Parts of Nature does.
That the Wind is more expressive and adapted to his Immediate Power, as
he is pleas'd to exert it in extraordinary Cases in the World.
That 'tis more frequently made use of as the Executioner of his
Judgments in the World, and extraordinary Events are brought to pass by
it.
From these three Heads we are brought down directly to speak of the
Particular Storm before us; _viz._ The Greatest, the Longest in
Duration, the widest in Extent, of all the Tempests and Storms that
History gives any Account of since the Beginning of Time.
In the further Conduct of the Story, 'twill not be foreign to the
Purpose, nor unprofitable to the Reader, to review the Histories of
ancient Time and remote Countries, and examine in what Manner God has
been pleas'd to execute his Judgments by Storms and Tempests; what kind
of things they have been, and what the Consequences of them; and then
bring down the Parallel to the Dreadful Instance before us.
We read in the Scripture of Two Great Storms; One past, and the Other to
come. Whether the last be not Allegorical rather than Prophetical, I
shall not busie my self to determine.
The First was when God caused a strong Wind to blow upon the Face of the
Delug'd World; to put a stop to the Flood, and reduce the Waters to
their proper Channel.
I wish our Naturalists would explain that Wind to us, and tell us which
way it blew, or how it is possible that any direct Wind could cause the
Waters to ebb; for to me it seems, that the Deluge being universal, that
Wind which blew the Waters from one Part must blow them up in another.
Whether it was not some perpendicular Gusts that might by their Force
separate the Water and the Earth, and cause the Water driven from off
the Land to _subside_ by its own Pressure.
I shall dive no farther into that mysterious Deluge, which has some
things in it which recommend the Story rather to our Faith than
Demonstration.
The Other Storm I find in the Scripture is in the _God shall rain upon
the Wicked, Plagues, Fire, and a horrible Tempest_. What this shall be,
we wait to know; and happy are they who shall be secured from its
Effects.
Histories are full of Instances of violent Tempests and Storms in sundry
particular Places. What that was, which mingled with such violent
Lightnings set the Cities of _Sodom_ and _Gomorrah_ on fire, remains to
me yet undecided: nor am I satisfied the Effect it had on the Waters of
the Lake, which are to this Day call'd the _Dead Sea_, are such as some
fabulous Authors have related, and as Travellers take upon them to say.
