Tell Mary that there were some carpenters at work in the inn at Devizes
this morning, but as I could not be sure of their being Mrs. W. Fowle's
relations, I did not make myself known to them.
I hope it will be a tolerable afternoon. When first we came, all the
umbrellas were up, but now the pavements are getting very white again.
My mother does not seem at all the worse for her journey, nor are any of
us, I hope, though Edward seemed rather fagged last night, and not very
brisk this morning; but I trust the bustle of sending for tea, coffee,
and sugar, etc., and going out to taste a cheese himself, will do him
good.
There was a very long list of arrivals here in the newspaper yesterday,
so that we need not immediately dread absolute solitude; and there is a
public breakfast in Sydney Gardens every morning, so that we shall not
be wholly starved.
Elizabeth has just had a very good account of the three little boys. I
hope you are very busy and very comfortable. I find no difficulty in
closing my eyes. I like our situation very much; it is far more cheerful
than Paragon, and the prospect from the drawing-room window, at which I
now write, is rather picturesque, as it commands a prospective view of
the left side of Brock Street, broken by three Lombardy poplars in the
garden of the last house in Queen's Parade.
I am rather impatient to know the fate of my best gown, but I suppose it
will be some days before Frances can get through the trunk. In the mean
time I am, with many thanks for your trouble in making it, as well as
marking my silk stockings,
                                    Yours very affectionately,
                                                            JANE.
A great deal of love from everybody.
  Miss AUSTEN, Steventon, Overton, Hants.
XV.
                                    13 QUEEN SQUARE, Sunday (June 2).
MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I am obliged to you for two letters, one from
yourself and the other from Mary, for of the latter I knew nothing till
on the receipt of yours yesterday, when the pigeon-basket was examined,
and I received my due. As I have written to her since the time which
ought to have brought me hers, I suppose she will consider herself, as I
choose to consider her, still in my debt.
I will lay out all the little judgment I have in endeavoring to get such
stockings for Anna as she will approve; but I do not know that I shall
execute Martha's commission at all, for I am not fond of ordering shoes;
and, at any rate, they shall all have flat heels.
What must I tell you of Edward? Truth or falsehood? I will try the
former, and you may choose for yourself another time. He was better
yesterday than he had been for two or three days before,--about as well
as while he was at Steventon. He drinks at the Hetling Pump, is to bathe
to-morrow, and try electricity on Tuesday. He proposed the latter
himself to Dr. Fellowes, who made no objection to it, but I fancy we are
all unanimous in expecting no advantage from it. At present I have no
great notion of our staying here beyond the month.
