By this Means also we secur'd the Ship's Crew keeping together; for if any
Man left the Ship now, he was sure to leave about 6000 Pieces of Eight
behind him, to be shar'd among the rest of the Ship's Company, which few of
them car'd to do.
As we were now all embark'd together, the next Question was, Whither we
should go? As for our Crew, we were so rich, that our Men were all for
going back again, and so to make off to some of the _Leeward Islands_, that
we might get a-Shore privately with our Booty: But as we had shipp'd our
new Comrades on Board a good Ship, it would be very hard to oblige them to
go back without any Purchace, for that would be to give them a Ship to do
them no Good, but to carry them back to _Europe_ just as they came out from
thence, _viz._ with no Money in their Pockets.
Upon these Considerations we came to this Resolution, That they should go
out to Sea and Cruise the Height of _Lima_, and try their Fortune, and that
we would stay 60 Days for them at _Juan Fernando_.
Upon this Agreement they went away very joyful, and we fell to work to new
rig our Ship, mending our Sails, and cleaning our Bottom. Here we employ'd
ourselves a Month very hard at Work; our Carpenters also took down some of
the Ship's upper Work, and built it, as we thought, more to the Advantage
of Sailing; so that we had more Room within, and yet did not lie so high.
During this Time we had a Tent set up on Shore, and 50 of our Men employ'd
themselves wholly in killing Goats and Fowls for our fresh Provisions; and
one of our Men understanding we had some Malt left on Board the Ship, which
was taken in one of the Prizes, set up a great Kettle on Shore, and went to
work to Brewing, and, to our great Satisfaction, brew'd us some very good
Beer; but we wanted Bottles to keep it in, after it had stood a while in
the Cask.
However, he brew'd us very good Small Beer, for present Use; and instead of
Hops he found some wild Wormwood growing on the Island, which gave it no
unpleasant Taste, and made it very agreeable to us.
Before the Time was expir'd, our Frigat sent a Sloop to us, which they had
taken, to give us Notice that they were in a small Creek near the Mould of
the River _Guyaquil_, on the Coast of _Peru_, in the Latitude of 22
Degrees. They had a great Booty in View, there being two Ships in the River
of _Guyaquil_, and two more expected to pass by from _Lima_, in which was a
great Quantity of Plate; that they waited there for them, and begg'd we
would not think the Time long; but that if we should go away, they desir'd
that we would fix up a Post, with a Piece of Lead on it, signifying where
they should come to us, and wherever it was, East or West, North or South,
they would follow us with all the Sail they could make.
