Toby discharged himself of his commission, therefore, with all possible
speed, and set off trotting homeward.  But what with his pace, which was
at best an awkward one in the street; and what with his hat, which didn’t
improve it; he trotted against somebody in less than no time, and was
sent staggering out into the road.
‘I beg your pardon, I’m sure!’ said Trotty, pulling up his hat in great
confusion, and between the hat and the torn lining, fixing his head into
a kind of bee-hive.  ‘I hope I haven’t hurt you.’
As to hurting anybody, Toby was not such an absolute Samson, but that he
was much more likely to be hurt himself: and indeed, he had flown out
into the road, like a shuttlecock.  He had such an opinion of his own
strength, however, that he was in real concern for the other party: and
said again,
‘I hope I haven’t hurt you?’
The man against whom he had run; a sun-browned, sinewy, country-looking
man, with grizzled hair, and a rough chin; stared at him for a moment, as
if he suspected him to be in jest.  But, satisfied of his good faith, he
answered:
‘No, friend.  You have not hurt me.’
‘Nor the child, I hope?’ said Trotty.
‘Nor the child,’ returned the man.  ‘I thank you kindly.’
As he said so, he glanced at a little girl he carried in his arms,
asleep: and shading her face with the long end of the poor handkerchief
he wore about his throat, went slowly on.
The tone in which he said ‘I thank you kindly,’ penetrated Trotty’s
heart.  He was so jaded and foot-sore, and so soiled with travel, and
looked about him so forlorn and strange, that it was a comfort to him to
be able to thank any one: no matter for how little.  Toby stood gazing
after him as he plodded wearily away, with the child’s arm clinging round
his neck.
At the figure in the worn shoes—now the very shade and ghost of
shoes—rough leather leggings, common frock, and broad slouched hat,
Trotty stood gazing, blind to the whole street.  And at the child’s arm,
clinging round its neck.
Before he merged into the darkness the traveller stopped; and looking
round, and seeing Trotty standing there yet, seemed undecided whether to
return or go on.  After doing first the one and then the other, he came
back, and Trotty went half-way to meet him.
‘You can tell me, perhaps,’ said the man with a faint smile, ‘and if you
can I am sure you will, and I’d rather ask you than another—where
Alderman Cute lives.’
‘Close at hand,’ replied Toby.  ‘I’ll show you his house with pleasure.’
‘I was to have gone to him elsewhere to-morrow,’ said the man,
accompanying Toby, ‘but I’m uneasy under suspicion, and want to clear
myself, and to be free to go and seek my bread—I don’t know where.  So,
maybe he’ll forgive my going to his house to-night.’
