"Don't shoot.  I haven't a gun."
The shadow had assumed tangible shape, and at the sound of its human
voice a trepidation affected Fortune La Pearle's knees, and his stomach
was stricken with the qualms of sudden relief.
Perhaps things fell out differently because Uri Bram had no gun that
night when he sat on the hard benches of the El Dorado and saw murder
done.  To that fact also might be attributed the trip on the Long Trail
which he took subsequently with a most unlikely comrade.  But be it as it
may, he repeated a second time, "Don't shoot.  Can't you see I haven't a
gun?"
"Then what the flaming hell did you take after me for?" demanded the
gambler, lowering his revolver.
Uri Bram shrugged his shoulders.  "It don't matter much, anyhow.  I want
you to come with me."
"Where?"
"To my shack, over on the edge of the camp."
But Fortune La Pearle drove the heel of his moccasin into the snow and
attested by his various deities to the madness of Uri Bram.  "Who are
you," he perorated, "and what am I, that I should put my neck into the
rope at your bidding?"
"I am Uri Bram," the other said simply, "and my shack is over there on
the edge of camp.  I don't know who you are, but you've thrust the soul
from a living man's body,--there's the blood red on your sleeve,--and,
like a second Cain, the hand of all mankind is against you, and there is
no place you may lay your head.  Now, I have a shack--"
"For the love of your mother, hold your say, man," interrupted Fortune La
Pearle, "or I'll make you a second Abel for the joy of it.  So help me, I
will!  With a thousand men to lay me by the heels, looking high and low,
what do I want with your shack?  I want to get out of here--away! away!
away!  Cursed swine!  I've half a mind to go back and run amuck, and
settle for a few of them, the pigs!  One gorgeous, glorious fight, and
end the whole damn business!  It's a skin game, that's what life is, and
I'm sick of it!"
He stopped, appalled, crushed by his great desolation, and Uri Bram
seized the moment.  He was not given to speech, this man, and that which
followed was the longest in his life, save one long afterward in another
place.
"That's why I told you about my shack.  I can stow you there so they'll
never find you, and I've got grub in plenty.  Elsewise you can't get
away.  No dogs, no nothing, the sea closed, St. Michael the nearest post,
runners to carry the news before you, the same over the portage to
Anvik--not a chance in the world for you!  Now wait with me till it blows
over.  They'll forget all about you in a month or less, what of
stampeding to York and what not, and you can hit the trail under their
noses and they won't bother.  I've got my own ideas of justice.  When I
ran after you, out of the El Dorado and along the beach, it wasn't to
catch you or give you up.  My ideas are my own, and that's not one of
them."
