Wunsch blinked at the line penciled on the paper. "Wherefrom you get
this?" he asked gruffly.
"Out of a book Dr. Archie gave me to read. It's all English but that.
Did you ever see it before?" she asked, watching his face.
"Yes. A long time ago," he muttered, scowling. "Ovidius!" He took a stub
of lead pencil from his vest pocket, steadied his hand by a visible
effort, and under the words:
"LENTE CURRITE, LENTE CURRITE, NOCTIS EQUI," he wrote in a clear,
elegant Gothic hand,--
"GO SLOWLY, GO SLOWLY, YE STEEDS OF THE NIGHT."
He put the pencil back in his pocket and continued to stare at the
Latin. It recalled the poem, which he had read as a student, and thought
very fine. There were treasures of memory which no lodging-house keeper
could attach. One carried things about in one's head, long after one's
linen could be smuggled out in a tuning-bag. He handed the paper back
to Thea. "There is the English, quite elegant," he said, rising.
Mrs. Kohler stuck her head in at the door, and Thea slid off the stool.
"Come in, Mrs. Kohler," she called, "and show me the piece-picture."
The old woman laughed, pulled off her big gardening gloves, and pushed
Thea to the lounge before the object of her delight. The
"piece-picture," which hung on the wall and nearly covered one whole end
of the room, was the handiwork of Fritz Kohler. He had learned his trade
under an old-fashioned tailor in Magdeburg who required from each of his
apprentices a thesis: that is, before they left his shop, each
apprentice had to copy in cloth some well known German painting,
stitching bits of colored stuff together on a linen background; a kind
of mosaic. The pupil was allowed to select his subject, and Fritz Kohler
had chosen a popular painting of Napoleon's retreat from Moscow. The
gloomy Emperor and his staff were represented as crossing a stone
bridge, and behind them was the blazing city, the walls and fortresses
done in gray cloth with orange tongues of flame darting about the domes
and minarets. Napoleon rode his white horse; Murat, in Oriental dress, a
bay charger. Thea was never tired of examining this work, of hearing how
long it had taken Fritz to make it, how much it had been admired, and
what narrow escapes it had had from moths and fire. Silk, Mrs. Kohler
explained, would have been much easier to manage than woolen cloth, in
which it was often hard to get the right shades. The reins of the
horses, the wheels of the spurs, the brooding eyebrows of the Emperor,
Murat's fierce mustaches, the great shakos of the Guard, were all worked
out with the minutest fidelity. Thea's admiration for this picture had
endeared her to Mrs. Kohler. It was now many years since she used to
point out its wonders to her own little boys. As Mrs. Kohler did not go
to church, she never heard any singing, except the songs that floated
over from Mexican Town, and Thea often sang for her after the lesson was
over. This morning Wunsch pointed to the piano.
