NYM.
These be good humours! Your honour wins bad humours.
[Exeunt [all but Boy.]
BOY.
As young as I am, I have observ'd these three swashers. I am
boy to them all three; but all they three, though they would
serve me, could not be man to me; for indeed three such antics
do not amount to a man. For Bardolph, he is white-liver'd and
red-fac'd; by the means whereof 'a faces it out, but fights not.
For Pistol, he hath a killing tongue and a quiet sword; by the
means whereof 'a breaks words, and keeps whole weapons. For
Nym, he hath heard that men of few words are the best men; and
therefore he scorns to say his prayers, lest 'a should be thought
a coward.  But his few bad words are match'd with as few good
deeds; for 'a never broke any man's head but his own, and that
was against a post when he was drunk. They will steal anything,
and call it purchase. Bardolph stole a lute-case, bore it twelve
leagues, and sold it for three half-pence. Nym and Bardolph are
sworn brothers in filching, and in Calais they stole a
fire-shovel.
I knew by that piece of service the men would carry coals. They
would have me as familiar with men's pockets as their gloves or
their handkerchers; which makes much against my manhood, if I
should take from another's pocket to put into mine; for it is
plain pocketing up of wrongs. I must leave them, and seek some
better service.  Their villainy goes against my weak stomach,
and therefore I must cast it up.
[Exit.]
[Enter Gower [and Fluellen.]
GOWER.
Captain Fluellen, you must come presently to the mines.
The Duke of Gloucester would speak with you.
FLUELLEN.
To the mines! Tell you the Duke, it is not so good to come
to the mines; for, look you, the mines is not according to the
disciplines of the war.  The concavities of it is not sufficient;
for, look you, the athversary, you may discuss unto the Duke,
look you, is digt himself four yard under the countermines.  By
Cheshu, I think 'a will plow up all, if there is not better
directions.
GOWER.
The Duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the siege is
given, is altogether directed by an Irishman, a very valiant
gentleman, i' faith.
FLUELLEN.
It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
GOWER.
I think it be.
FLUELLEN.
By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world. I will verify as
much in his beard.  He has no more directions in the true
disciplines of the wars, look you, of the Roman disciplines,
than is a puppy-dog.
[Enter Macmorris and Captain Jamy.]
GOWER.
Here 'a comes; and the Scots captain, Captain Jamy, with him.
FLUELLEN.
Captain Jamy is a marvellous falorous gentleman, that is
certain; and of great expedition and knowledge in the aunchient
wars, upon my particular knowledge of his directions. By Cheshu,
he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the
world, in the disciplines of the pristine wars of the Romans.
