In this place I began to consider that the Canary and Cape de Verde
islands lay not for off: but having no instrument, I knew not what
latitude, or when to stand off to sea for them; yet my hopes were, I
should meet some of the English trading vessels, who would relieve and
take us in.
The place I was in was no doubt that wild country, inhabited only by a
few, that lies between the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes. It is filled with wild beasts and the Moors use it for hunting
chiefly.--From this place I thought I saw the top of the mountain
Teneriff in the Canaries: which made me try twice to attain it: but as
often was I drove back, and so forced to pursue my fortune along shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a little point of land, but
pretty high; and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready to go further
in--But Xury, whose youthful and penetrating eyes were sharper then
mine, in a soft tone, desired me to keep far from land, lest we should
be devoured, "For look yonder, mayter," said he, "and see de dreadful
monster fast asleep on de side of de hill." Accordingly looking where he
pointed, I espied a fearful monster indeed. It was a terrible great lion
that lay on shore, covered as it were by a shade of a piece of the hill.
"Xury," said I, "you shall go on shore and kill him." But the boy looked
amazed: "Me kill him!" says he, "he eat me at one mouth:" meaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and charging my biggest gun
with two slugs, and a good charge of powder, I took the best aim I could
to shoot him through the head, but his leg lying over his nose, the slug
broke his knee-bone. The lion awaking with the pain, got up, but soon
fell down, giving the most hideous groan I ever heard: but taking my
second piece, I shot him through the head, and then he lay struggling
for life. Upon this Xury took heart and desired my leave to go on shore.
"Go then," said I. Upon which taking a little gun in one hand, he swam
to shore with the other, and coming close to the lion, put a period to
his life, by shooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the flesh not being good
to eat. Xury was like a champion, and comes on board for a hatchet, to
cut of the head of his enemy: but not having strength to perform it, he
cut off and brought me a foot. I bethought me, however, that his skin
would be of use. This work cost Xury and me a whole day: when spreading
it on the top of our cabin, the hot beams of the sun effectually dried
it in two days time, and it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
