Once, I asked Wada if he had seen the crew.  No, he hadn't, but the
steward had said that in all his years at sea this was the worst crew he
had ever seen.
"He say, all crazy, no sailors, rotten," Wada said.  "He say all big
fools and bime by much trouble.  'You see,' he say all the time.  'You
see, You see.'  He pretty old man--fifty-five years, he say.  Very smart
man for Chinaman.  Just now, first time for long time, he go to sea.
Before, he have big business in San Francisco.  Then he get much
trouble--police.  They say he opium smuggle.  Oh, big, big trouble.  But
he catch good lawyer.  He no go to jail.  But long time lawyer work, and
when trouble all finish lawyer got all his business, all his money,
everything.  Then he go to sea, like before.  He make good money.  He get
sixty-five dollars a month on this ship.  But he don't like.  Crew all
crazy.  When this time finish he leave ship, go back start business in
San Francisco."
Later, when I had Wada open one of the ports for ventilation, I could
hear the gurgle and swish of water alongside, and I knew the anchor was
up and that we were in the grip of the _Britannia_, towing down the
Chesapeake to sea.  The idea suggested itself that it was not too late.  I
could very easily abandon the adventure and return to Baltimore on the
_Britannia_ when she cast off the _Elsinore_.  And then I heard a slight
tinkling of china from the pantry as the steward proceeded to set the
table, and, also, it was so warm and comfortable, and George Moore was so
irritatingly fascinating.
CHAPTER VII
In every way dinner proved up beyond my expectations, and I registered a
note that the cook, whoever or whatever he might be, was a capable man at
his trade.  Miss West served, and, though she and the steward were
strangers, they worked together splendidly.  I should have thought, from
the smoothness of the service, that he was an old house servant who for
years had known her every way.
The pilot ate in the chart-house, so that at table were the four of us
that would always be at table together.  Captain West and his daughter
faced each other, while I, on the captain's right, faced Mr. Pike.  This
put Miss West across the corner on my right.
Mr. Pike, his dark sack coat (put on for the meal) bulging and wrinkling
over the lumps of muscles that padded his stooped shoulders, had nothing
at all to say.  But he had eaten too many years at captains' tables not
to have proper table manners.  At first I thought he was abashed by Miss
West's presence.  Later, I decided it was due to the presence of the
captain.  For Captain West had a way with him that I was beginning to
learn.  Far removed as Mr. Pike and Mr. Mellaire were from the sailors,
individuals as they were of an entirely different and superior breed, yet
equally as different and far removed from his officers was Captain West.
He was a serene and absolute aristocrat.  He neither talked "ship" nor
anything else to Mr. Pike.
