My father has applied to Mr. May for an ale-house for Robert, at his
request, and to Mr. Deane, of Winchester, likewise. This was my mother's
idea, who thought he would be proud to oblige a relation of Edward in
return for Edward's accepting his money. He sent a very civil answer
indeed, but has no house vacant at present. May expects to have an empty
one soon at Farnham, so perhaps Nanny may have the honor of drawing ale
for the Bishop. I shall write to Frank to-morrow.
Charles Powlett gave a dance on Thursday, to the great disturbance of
all his neighbors, of course, who, you know, take a most lively interest
in the state of his finances, and live in hopes of his being soon
ruined.
We are very much disposed to like our new maid; she knows nothing of a
dairy, to be sure, which, in our family, is rather against her, but she
is to be taught it all. In short, we have felt the inconvenience of
being without a maid so long, that we are determined to like her, and
she will find it a hard matter to displease us. As yet, she seems to
cook very well, is uncommonly stout, and says she can work well at her
needle.
_Sunday._--My father is glad to hear so good an account of Edward's
pigs, and desires he may be told, as encouragement to his taste for
them, that Lord Bolton is particularly curious in _his_ pigs, has had
pigstyes of a most elegant construction built for them, and visits them
every morning as soon as he rises.
                                             Affectionately yours,
                                                                 J. A.
  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.
FOOTNOTE:
[3] Mrs. James Austen.
IX.
                                    STEVENTON, Tuesday (December 18).
MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Your letter came quite as soon as I expected, and so
your letters will always do, because I have made it a rule not to expect
them till they come, in which I think I consult the ease of us both.
It is a great satisfaction to us to hear that your business is in a way
to be settled, and so settled as to give you as little inconvenience as
possible. You are very welcome to my father's name and to his services
if they are ever required in it. I shall keep my ten pounds too, to wrap
myself up in next winter.
I took the liberty a few days ago of asking your black velvet bonnet to
lend me its cawl, which it very readily did, and by which I have been
enabled to give a considerable improvement of dignity to cap, which was
before too _nidgetty_ to please me. I shall wear it on Thursday, but I
hope you will not be offended with me for following your advice as to
its ornaments only in part. I still venture to retain the narrow silver
round it, put twice round without any bow, and instead of the black
military feather shall put in the coquelicot one as being smarter, and
besides coquelicot is to be all the fashion this winter. After the ball
I shall probably make it entirely black.
