  GUNNAR (violently agitated). Woman, not a word more!
  DAGNY (softly). Sigurd, wilt thou bear----?
  SIGURD (likewise). Be still!
  HIORDIS (to the company). And now, ye brave men--which is the
mightier, Sigurd or Gunnar?
  GUNNAR. Silence!
  HIORDIS (loudly). Speak out; I have the right to crave your judgement.
  AN OLD MAN (among the guests). If the truth be told, then is
Gunnar's deed greater than all other deeds of men; Gunnar is the
mightiest warrior, and Sigurd is second to him.
  GUNNAR (with a glance across the table). Ah, Sigurd, Sigurd, didst
thou but know----!
  DAGNY (softly). This is too much--even for a friend!
  SIGURD. Peace, wife! (Aloud, to the others.) Ay truly, Gunnar is
the most honourable of all men; so would I esteem him to my dying
day, even had he never done that deed; for that I hold more lightly
than ye.
  HIORDIS. There speaks thy envy, Sigurd Viking!
  SIGURD (smiling). Mightily art thou mistaken. (Kindly, to GUNNAR,
drinking to him across the table.) Hail, noble Gunnar; our friendship
shall stand fast, whosoever may seek to break it.
  HIORDIS. No one, that I wot of, has such a thought.
  SIGURD. Say not that; I could almost find it in me to think that
thou hadst bidden us hither to stir up strife.
  HIORDIS. That is like thee, Sigurd; now art thou wroth that thou
may'st not be held the mightiest man at the feast-board.
  SIGURD. I have ever esteemed Gunnar more highly than myself.
  HIORDIS. Well, well--second to Gunnar is still a good place, and----
(with a side-glance at THOROLF) had Ornulf been here, he could have
had the third seat.
  THOROLF. Then would Jokul, thy father, find a low place indeed; for
he fell before Ornulf.
    (The following dispute is carried on, by both parties, with rising
      and yet repressed irritation.)
  HIORDIS. That shalt thou never say! Ornulf is a skald, and men
whisper that he has praised himself for greater deeds than he has
done.
  THOROLF. Then woe to him who whispers so loudly that it comes to
my ear!
  HIORDIS (with a smile of provocation). Wouldst thou avenge it?
  THOROLF. Ay, so that my vengeance should be told of far and wide.
  HIORDIS. Then here I pledge a cup to this, that thou may'st first
have a beard on thy chin.
  THOROLF. Even a beardless lad is too good to wrangle with women.
  HIORDIS. But too weak to fight with men; therefore thy father let
thee lie by the hearth at home in Iceland, whilst thy brothers went
a-viking.
  THOROLF. It had been well had he kept as good an eye on thee; for
then hadst thou not left Iceland a dishonoured woman.
  GUNNAR AND SIGURD. Thorolf!
  DAGNY (simultaneously). Brother!
  HIORDIS (softly, and quivering with rage). Ha! wait--wait!
  THOROLF (gives GUNNAR his hand). Be not wroth, Gunnar; evil words
came to my tongue; but thy wife egged me!
  DAGNY (softly and imploringly). Foster-sister, by any love thou
hast ever borne me, stir not up strife!
