"Be ready," Mary whispered. "Your name comes now; he has read eighteen."
The chant ended.
"Next! next! next!" came volleying from all over the house.
Burgess put his hand into his pocket. The old couple, trembling, began
to rise. Burgess fumbled a moment, then said:
"I find I have read them all."
Faint with joy and surprise, the couple sank into their seats, and Mary
whispered:
"Oh, bless God, we are saved!--he has lost ours--I wouldn't give this
for a hundred of those sacks!"
The house burst out with its "Mikado" travesty, and sang it three times
with ever-increasing enthusiasm, rising to its feet when it reached for
the third time the closing line--
"But the Symbols are here, you bet!"
and finishing up with cheers and a tiger for "Hadleyburg purity and our
eighteen immortal representatives of it."
Then Wingate, the saddler, got up and proposed cheers "for the cleanest
man in town, the one solitary important citizen in it who didn't try to
steal that money--Edward Richards."
They were given with great and moving heartiness; then somebody proposed
that "Richards be elected sole Guardian and Symbol of the now Sacred
Hadleyburg Tradition, with power and right to stand up and look the
whole sarcastic world in the face."
Passed, by acclamation; then they sang the "Mikado" again, and ended it
with--
"And there's ONE Symbol left, you bet!"
There was a pause; then--
A Voice. "Now, then, who's to get the sack?"
The Tanner (with bitter sarcasm). "That's easy. The money has to be
divided among the eighteen Incorruptibles. They gave the suffering
stranger twenty dollars apiece--and that remark--each in his turn--it
took twenty-two minutes for the procession to move past. Staked the
stranger--total contribution, $360. All they want is just the loan
back--and interest--forty thousand dollars altogether."
Many Voices (derisively.) "That's it! Divvy! divvy! Be kind to the
poor--don't keep them waiting!"
The Chair. "Order! I now offer the stranger's remaining document. It
says: 'If no claimant shall appear (grand chorus of groans), I desire
that you open the sack and count out the money to the principal citizens
of your town, they to take it in trust (Cries of "Oh! Oh! Oh!"), and
use it in such ways as to them shall seem best for the propagation and
preservation of your community's noble reputation for incorruptible
honesty (more cries)--a reputation to which their names and their
efforts will add a new and far-reaching lustre." (Enthusiastic outburst
of sarcastic applause.) That seems to be all. No--here is a postscript:
"'P.S.--CITIZENS OF HADLEYBURG: There IS no test-remark--nobody made
one. (Great sensation.) There wasn't any pauper stranger, nor any
twenty-dollar contribution, nor any accompanying benediction and
compliment--these are all inventions. (General buzz and hum of
astonishment and delight.) Allow me to tell my story--it will take but a
word or two. I passed through your town at a certain time, and received
a deep offence which I had not earned. Any other man would have been
content to kill one or two of you and call it square, but to me that
would have been a trivial revenge, and inadequate; for the dead do not
SUFFER. Besides I could not kill you all--and, anyway, made as I am,
even that would not have satisfied me. I wanted to damage every man in
the place, and every woman--and not in their bodies or in their estate,
but in their vanity--the place where feeble and foolish people are most
vulnerable. So I disguised myself and came back and studied you. You
were easy game. You had an old and lofty reputation for honesty, and
naturally you were proud of it--it was your treasure of treasures, the
very apple of your eye. As soon as I found out that you carefully and
vigilantly kept yourselves and your children OUT OF TEMPTATION, I knew
how to proceed. Why, you simple creatures, the weakest of all weak
things is a virtue which has not been tested in the fire. I laid a plan,
and gathered a list of names. My project was to corrupt Hadleyburg the
Incorruptible. My idea was to make liars and thieves of nearly half a
hundred smirchless men and women who had never in their lives uttered a
lie or stolen a penny. I was afraid of Goodson. He was neither born
nor reared in Hadleyburg. I was afraid that if I started to operate
my scheme by getting my letter laid before you, you would say to
yourselves, 'Goodson is the only man among us who would give away twenty
dollars to a poor devil'--and then you might not bite at my bait. But
heaven took Goodson; then I knew I was safe, and I set my trap and
baited it. It may be that I shall not catch all the men to whom I mailed
the pretended test-secret, but I shall catch the most of them, if I know
Hadleyburg nature. (Voices. "Right--he got every last one of them.") I
believe they will even steal ostensible GAMBLE-money, rather than miss,
poor, tempted, and mistrained fellows. I am hoping to eternally and
everlastingly squelch your vanity and give Hadleyburg a new renown--one
that will STICK--and spread far. If I have succeeded, open the sack and
summon the Committee on Propagation and Preservation of the Hadleyburg
Reputation.'"
