‘It’s impossible,’ cried Toby with a start, ‘that your name’s Fern!’
‘Eh!’ cried the other, turning on him in astonishment.
‘Fern!  Will Fern!’ said Trotty.
‘That’s my name,’ replied the other.
‘Why then,’ said Trotty, seizing him by the arm, and looking cautiously
round, ‘for Heaven’s sake don’t go to him!  Don’t go to him!  He’ll put
you down as sure as ever you were born.  Here! come up this alley, and
I’ll tell you what I mean.  Don’t go to _him_.’
His new acquaintance looked as if he thought him mad; but he bore him
company nevertheless.  When they were shrouded from observation, Trotty
told him what he knew, and what character he had received, and all about
it.
The subject of his history listened to it with a calmness that surprised
him.  He did not contradict or interrupt it, once.  He nodded his head
now and then—more in corroboration of an old and worn-out story, it
appeared, than in refutation of it; and once or twice threw back his hat,
and passed his freckled hand over a brow, where every furrow he had
ploughed seemed to have set its image in little.  But he did no more.
‘It’s true enough in the main,’ he said, ‘master, I could sift grain from
husk here and there, but let it be as ’tis.  What odds?  I have gone
against his plans; to my misfortun’.  I can’t help it; I should do the
like to-morrow.  As to character, them gentlefolks will search and
search, and pry and pry, and have it as free from spot or speck in us,
afore they’ll help us to a dry good word!—Well! I hope they don’t lose
good opinion as easy as we do, or their lives is strict indeed, and
hardly worth the keeping.  For myself, master, I never took with that
hand’—holding it before him—‘what wasn’t my own; and never held it back
from work, however hard, or poorly paid.  Whoever can deny it, let him
chop it off!  But when work won’t maintain me like a human creetur; when
my living is so bad, that I am Hungry, out of doors and in; when I see a
whole working life begin that way, go on that way, and end that way,
without a chance or change; then I say to the gentlefolks “Keep away from
me!  Let my cottage be.  My doors is dark enough without your darkening
of ’em more.  Don’t look for me to come up into the Park to help the show
when there’s a Birthday, or a fine Speechmaking, or what not.  Act your
Plays and Games without me, and be welcome to ’em, and enjoy ’em.  We’ve
nowt to do with one another.  I’m best let alone!”’
Seeing that the child in his arms had opened her eyes, and was looking
about her in wonder, he checked himself to say a word or two of foolish
prattle in her ear, and stand her on the ground beside him.  Then slowly
winding one of her long tresses round and round his rough forefinger like
a ring, while she hung about his dusty leg, he said to Trotty:
