There was another puzzled man, too--the Rev. Mr. Burgess. For days,
wherever he went, people seemed to follow him or to be watching out for
him; and if he ever found himself in a retired spot, a member of the
nineteen would be sure to appear, thrust an envelope privately into
his hand, whisper "To be opened at the town-hall Friday evening," then
vanish away like a guilty thing. He was expecting that there might be
one claimant for the sack--doubtful, however, Goodson being dead--but it
never occurred to him that all this crowd might be claimants. When the
great Friday came at last, he found that he had nineteen envelopes.
 III
The town-hall had never looked finer.  The platform at the end of it was
backed by a showy draping of flags; at intervals along the walls
were festoons of flags; the gallery fronts were clothed in flags; the
supporting columns were swathed in flags; all this was to impress the
stranger, for he would be there in considerable force, and in a large
degree he would be connected with the press. The house was full. The
412 fixed seats were occupied; also the 68 extra chairs which had been
packed into the aisles; the steps of the platform were occupied;
some distinguished strangers were given seats on the platform; at the
horseshoe of tables which fenced the front and sides of the platform sat
a strong force of special correspondents who had come from everywhere.
It was the best-dressed house the town had ever produced. There were
some tolerably expensive toilets there, and in several cases the
ladies who wore them had the look of being unfamiliar with that kind of
clothes. At least the town thought they had that look, but the notion
could have arisen from the town's knowledge of the fact that these
ladies had never inhabited such clothes before.
The gold-sack stood on a little table at the front of the platform where
all the house could see it. The bulk of the house gazed at it with a
burning interest, a mouth-watering interest, a wistful and pathetic
interest; a minority of nineteen couples gazed at it tenderly, lovingly,
proprietarily, and the male half of this minority kept saying over to
themselves the moving little impromptu speeches of thankfulness for the
audience's applause and congratulations which they were presently going
to get up and deliver. Every now and then one of these got a piece of
paper out of his vest pocket and privately glanced at it to refresh his
memory.
Of course there was a buzz of conversation going on--there always is;
but at last, when the Rev. Mr. Burgess rose and laid his hand on the
sack, he could hear his microbes gnaw, the place was so still. He
related the curious history of the sack, then went on to speak in
warm terms of Hadleyburg's old and well-earned reputation for spotless
honesty, and of the town's just pride in this reputation. He said that
this reputation was a treasure of priceless value; that under Providence
its value had now become inestimably enhanced, for the recent episode
had spread this fame far and wide, and thus had focussed the eyes of the
American world upon this village, and made its name for all time, as
he hoped and believed, a synonym for commercial incorruptibility.
(Applause.) "And who is to be the guardian of this noble fame--the
community as a whole? No! The responsibility is individual, not
communal. From this day forth each and every one of you is in his own
person its special guardian, and individually responsible that no harm
shall come to it. Do you--does each of you--accept this great trust?
(Tumultuous assent.) Then all is well. Transmit it to your children and
to your children's children. To-day your purity is beyond reproach--see
to it that it shall remain so. To-day there is not a person in your
community who could be beguiled to touch a penny not his own--see to
it that you abide in this grace. ("We will! we will!") This is not the
place to make comparisons between ourselves and other communities--some
of them ungracious towards us; they have their ways, we have ours; let
us be content. (Applause.) I am done. Under my hand, my friends, rests
a stranger's eloquent recognition of what we are; through him the world
will always henceforth know what we are. We do not know who he is, but
in your name I utter your gratitude, and ask you to raise your voices in
indorsement."
