It was a pretty sight, and the ladies found it hard to break up the
happy revel; but it was late for small people, and too much fun is a
mistake. So the girls fell into line, and marched before Effie and mamma
again, to say goodnight with such grateful little faces that the eyes of
those who looked grew dim with tears. Mamma kissed every one; and many
a hungry childish heart felt as if the touch of those tender lips was
their best gift. Effie shook so many small hands that her own tingled;
and when Katy came she pressed a small doll into Effie's hand,
whispering, "You didn't have a single present, and we had lots. Do keep
that; it's the prettiest thing I got."
"I will," answered Effie, and held it fast until the last smiling face
was gone, the surprise all over, and she safe in her own bed, too tired
and happy for anything but sleep.
"Mamma, it was a beautiful surprise, and I thank you so much! I don't
see how you did it; but I like it best of all the Christmases I ever
had, and mean to make one every year. I had my splendid big present, and
here is the dear little one to keep for love of poor Katy; so even that
part of my wish came true."
And Effie fell asleep with a happy smile on her lips, her one humble
gift still in her hand, and a new love for Christmas in her heart that
never changed through a long life spent in doing good.
[Illustration: "Hollo, what do you want?" he asked, staring at her.]
II.
THE CANDY COUNTRY.
"I shall take mamma's red sun-umbrella, it is so warm, and none of the
children at school will have one like it," said Lily, one day, as she
went through the hall.
"The wind is very high; I'm afraid you'll be blown away if you carry
that big thing," called Nurse from the window, as the red umbrella went
bobbing down the garden walk with a small girl under it.
"I wish it would; I always wanted to go up in a balloon," answered Lily,
as she struggled out of the gate.
She got on very well till she came to the bridge and stopped to look
over the railing at the water running by so fast, and the turtles
sunning themselves on the rocks. Lily was fond of throwing stones at
them; it was so funny to watch them tumble, heels over head, splash into
the water. Now, when she saw three big fellows close by, she stooped for
a stone, and just at that minute a gale of wind nearly took the
umbrella out of her hand. She clutched it fast; and away she went like
a thistle-down, right up in the air, over river and hill, houses and
trees, faster and faster, till her head spun round, her breath was all
gone, and she had to let go. The dear red umbrella flew away like a
leaf; and Lily fell down, down, till she went crash into a tree which
grew in such a curious place that she forgot her fright as she sat
looking about her, wondering what part of the world it could be.
