13.  No exciting books suit feverish patients; Unexciting
books make one drowsy.
14.  Some, who deserve the fair, get their deserts; None
but the brave deserve the fair.
15.  No children are patient; No impatient person can sit
still.
[See pp. 72-5]
16.  All pigs are fat; No skeletons are fat.
17.  No monkeys are soldiers; All monkeys are mischievous.
18.  None of my cousins are just; No judges are unjust.
19.  Some days are rainy; Rainy days are tiresome.
20.  All medicine is nasty; Senna is a medicine.
21.  Some Jews are rich; All Patagonians are Gentiles.
22.  All teetotalers like sugar; No nightingale drinks wine.
23.  No muffins are wholesome; All buns are unwholesome.
24.  No fat creatures run well; Some greyhounds run well.
25.  All soldiers march; Some youths are not soldiers.
26.  Sugar is sweet; Salt is not sweet.
27.  Some eggs are hard-boiled; No eggs are uncrackable.
28.  There are no Jews in the house; There are no Gentiles
in the garden.
[See pp. 75-82]
29.  All battles are noisy; What makes no noise may escape
notice.
30.  No Jews are mad; All Rabbis are Jews.
31.  There are no fish that cannot swim; Some skates are
fish.
32.  All passionate people are unreasonable; Some orators
are passionate.
[See pp. 82-84]
CHAPTER III.
CROOKED ANSWERS.
            "I answered him, as I thought good,
             'As many as red-herrings grow in the wood'."
__________
1.  Elementary.
1.  Whatever can be "attributed to", that is "said to belong to",
a Thing, is called an 'Attribute'.  For example, "baked", which
can (frequently) be attributed to "Buns", and "beautiful", which
can (seldom) be attributed to "Babies".
2.  When they are the Names of two Things (for example, "these
Pigs are fat Animals"), or of two Attributes (for example, "pink
is light red").
3.  When one is the Name of a Thing, and the other the Name of an
Attribute (for example, "these Pigs are pink"), since a Thing cannot
actually BE an Attribute.
4.  That the Substantive shall be supposed to be repeated at the
end of the sentence (for example, "these Pigs are pink (Pigs)").
5.  A 'Proposition' is a sentence stating that some, or none, or all,
of the Things belonging to a certain class, called the 'Subject',
are also Things belonging to a certain other class, called the
'Predicate'.  For example, "some new Cakes are not nice", that is
(written in full) "some new Cakes are not nice Cakes"; where the
class "new Cakes" is the Subject, and the class "not-nice Cakes"
is the Predicate.
6.  A Proposition, stating that SOME of the Things belonging to
its Subject are so-and-so, is called 'Particular'.  For example,
"some new Cakes are nice", "some new Cakes are not nice."
A Proposition, stating that NONE of the Things belonging to its
Subject, or that ALL of them, are so-and-so, is called 'Universal'.
For example, "no new Cakes are nice", "all new Cakes are not nice".
7.  The Things in each compartment possess TWO Attributes, whose
symbols will be found written on two of the EDGES of that compartment.
