Already, the night before, I noticed some glances in my direction. On
the other hand, several convicts hung around me as if they had suspected
that I had brought money with me. They endeavoured to get into my good
graces by teaching me how to carry my irons without being incommoded.
They also gave me--of course in return for money--a box with a lock, in
order to keep safe the things which had been entrusted to me by the
administration, and the few shirts that I had been allowed to bring with
me to the convict prison. Not later than next morning these same
prisoners stole my box, and drank the money which they had taken out of
it.
One of them became afterwards a great friend of mine, though he robbed
me whenever an opportunity offered itself. He was, all the same, vexed
at what he had done. He committed these thefts almost unconsciously, as
if in the way of a duty. Consequently I bore him no grudge.
These convicts let me know that one could have tea, and that I should do
well to get myself a teapot. They found me one, which I hired for a
certain time. They also recommended me a cook, who, for thirty kopecks a
month, would arrange the dishes I might desire, if it was my intention
to buy provisions and take my meals apart. Of course they borrowed money
from me. The day of my arrival they asked me for some at three different
times.
The noblemen degraded from their position, here incarcerated in the
convict prison, were badly looked upon by their fellow prisoners;
although they had lost all their rights like the other convicts, they
were not looked upon as comrades.
In this instinctive repugnance there was a sort of reason. To them we
were always gentlemen, although they often laughed at our fall.
"Ah! it's all over now. Mossieu's carriage formerly crushed the
passers-by at Moscow. Now Mossieu picks hemp!"
They knew our sufferings, though we hid them as much as possible. It
was, above all, when we were all working together that we had most to
endure, for our strength was not so great as theirs, and we were really
not of much assistance to them. Nothing is more difficult than to gain
the confidence of the common people; above all, such people as these!
There were only a few of us who were of noble birth in the whole prison.
First, there were five Poles--of whom further on I shall speak in
detail--they were detested by the convicts more, perhaps, than the
Russian nobles. The Poles--I speak only of the political
convicts--always behaved to them with a constrained and offensive
politeness, scarcely ever speaking to them, and making no endeavour to
conceal the disgust which they experienced in such company. The convicts
understood all this, and paid them back in their own coin.
Two years passed before I could gain the good-will of my companions; but
the greater part of them were attached to me, and declared that I was a
good fellow.
