'I thought you had so exactly found your niche in life, Jack,' Edwin
Drood returns, astonished, bending forward in his chair to lay a
sympathetic hand on Jasper's knee, and looking at him with an anxious
face.
'I know you thought so.  They all think so.'
'Well, I suppose they do,' says Edwin, meditating aloud.  'Pussy thinks
so.'
'When did she tell you that?'
'The last time I was here.  You remember when.  Three months ago.'
'How did she phrase it?'
'O, she only said that she had become your pupil, and that you were made
for your vocation.'
The younger man glances at the portrait.  The elder sees it in him.
'Anyhow, my dear Ned,' Jasper resumes, as he shakes his head with a grave
cheerfulness, 'I must subdue myself to my vocation: which is much the
same thing outwardly.  It's too late to find another now.  This is a
confidence between us.'
'It shall be sacredly preserved, Jack.'
'I have reposed it in you, because--'
'I feel it, I assure you.  Because we are fast friends, and because you
love and trust me, as I love and trust you.  Both hands, Jack.'
As each stands looking into the other's eyes, and as the uncle holds the
nephew's hands, the uncle thus proceeds:
'You know now, don't you, that even a poor monotonous chorister and
grinder of music--in his niche--may be troubled with some stray sort of
ambition, aspiration, restlessness, dissatisfaction, what shall we call
it?'
'Yes, dear Jack.'
'And you will remember?'
'My dear Jack, I only ask you, am I likely to forget what you have said
with so much feeling?'
'Take it as a warning, then.'
In the act of having his hands released, and of moving a step back, Edwin
pauses for an instant to consider the application of these last words.
The instant over, he says, sensibly touched:
'I am afraid I am but a shallow, surface kind of fellow, Jack, and that
my headpiece is none of the best.  But I needn't say I am young; and
perhaps I shall not grow worse as I grow older.  At all events, I hope I
have something impressible within me, which feels--deeply feels--the
disinterestedness of your painfully laying your inner self bare, as a
warning to me.'
Mr. Jasper's steadiness of face and figure becomes so marvellous that his
breathing seems to have stopped.
'I couldn't fail to notice, Jack, that it cost you a great effort, and
that you were very much moved, and very unlike your usual self.  Of
course I knew that you were extremely fond of me, but I really was not
prepared for your, as I may say, sacrificing yourself to me in that way.'
Mr. Jasper, becoming a breathing man again without the smallest stage of
transition between the two extreme states, lifts his shoulders, laughs,
and waves his right arm.
'No; don't put the sentiment away, Jack; please don't; for I am very much
in earnest.  I have no doubt that that unhealthy state of mind which you
have so powerfully described is attended with some real suffering, and is
hard to bear.  But let me reassure you, Jack, as to the chances of its
overcoming me.  I don't think I am in the way of it.  In some few months
less than another year, you know, I shall carry Pussy off from school as
Mrs. Edwin Drood.  I shall then go engineering into the East, and Pussy
with me.  And although we have our little tiffs now, arising out of a
certain unavoidable flatness that attends our love-making, owing to its
end being all settled beforehand, still I have no doubt of our getting on
capitally then, when it's done and can't be helped.  In short, Jack, to
go back to the old song I was freely quoting at dinner (and who knows old
songs better than you?), my wife shall dance, and I will sing, so merrily
pass the day.  Of Pussy's being beautiful there cannot be a doubt;--and
when you are good besides, Little Miss Impudence,' once more
apostrophising the portrait, 'I'll burn your comic likeness, and paint
your music-master another.'
