On the morning after passing Eagle, they rose early.  This was their last
camp, and they were now to part.  Fortune's heart was light.  There was a
promise of spring in the land, and the days were growing longer.  The way
was passing into Canadian territory.  Liberty was at hand, the sun was
returning, and each day saw him nearer to the Great Outside.  The world
was big, and he could once again paint his future in royal red.  He
whistled about the breakfast and hummed snatches of light song while Uri
put the dogs in harness and packed up.  But when all was ready, Fortune's
feet itching to be off, Uri pulled an unused back-log to the fire and sat
down.
"Ever hear of the Dead Horse Trail?"
He glanced up meditatively and Fortune shook his head, inwardly chafing
at the delay.
"Sometimes there are meetings under circumstances which make men
remember," Uri continued, speaking in a low voice and very slowly, "and I
met a man under such circumstances on the Dead Horse Trail.  Freighting
an outfit over the White Pass in '97 broke many a man's heart, for there
was a world of reason when they gave that trail its name.  The horses
died like mosquitoes in the first frost, and from Skaguay to Bennett they
rotted in heaps.  They died at the Rocks, they were poisoned at the
Summit, and they starved at the Lakes; they fell off the trail, what
there was of it, or they went through it; in the river they drowned under
their loads, or were smashed to pieces against the boulders; they snapped
their legs in the crevices and broke their backs falling backwards with
their packs; in the sloughs they sank from sight or smothered in the
slime, and they were disembowelled in the bogs where the corduroy logs
turned end up in the mud; men shot them, worked them to death, and when
they were gone, went back to the beach and bought more.  Some did not
bother to shoot them,--stripping the saddles off and the shoes and
leaving them where they fell.  Their hearts turned to stone--those which
did not break--and they became beasts, the men on Dead Horse Trail.
"It was there I met a man with the heart of a Christ and the patience.
And he was honest.  When he rested at midday he took the packs from the
horses so that they, too, might rest.  He paid $50 a hundred-weight for
their fodder, and more.  He used his own bed to blanket their backs when
they rubbed raw.  Other men let the saddles eat holes the size of water-
buckets.  Other men, when the shoes gave out, let them wear their hoofs
down to the bleeding stumps.  He spent his last dollar for horseshoe
nails.  I know this because we slept in the one bed and ate from the one
pot, and became blood brothers where men lost their grip of things and
died blaspheming God.  He was never too tired to ease a strap or tighten
a cinch, and often there were tears in his eyes when he looked on all
that waste of misery.  At a passage in the rocks, where the brutes
upreared hindlegged and stretched their forelegs upward like cats to
clear the wall, the way was piled with carcasses where they had toppled
back.  And here he stood, in the stench of hell, with a cheery word and a
hand on the rump at the right time, till the string passed by.  And when
one bogged he blocked the trail till it was clear again; nor did the man
live who crowded him at such time.
