"And when all that is past, and we are old, and living (as we
must!) together--close together; talking often of old times," said
Alfred--"these shall be our favorite times among them--this day most
of all; and telling each other what we thought and felt, and hoped and
feared, at parting; and how we couldn't bear to say good bye"----
"Coach coming through the wood," cried Britain.
"Yes! I am ready--and how we met again, so happily, in spite of all;
we'll make this day the happiest in all the year, and keep it as a
treble birth-day. Shall we, dear?"
"Yes!" interposed the elder sister, eagerly, and with a radiant smile.
"Yes! Alfred, don't linger. There's no time. Say good bye to Marion. And
Heaven be with you!"
He pressed the younger sister to his heart. Released from his embrace,
she again clung to her sister; and her eyes, with the same blended look,
again sought those so calm, serene, and cheerful.
"Farewell my boy!" said the Doctor. "To talk about any serious
correspondence or serious affections, and engagements, and so forth, in
such a--ha ha ha!--you know what I mean--why that, of course, would be
sheer nonsense. All I can say is, that if you and Marion should continue
in the same foolish minds, I shall not object to have you for a
son-in-law one of these days."
"Over the bridge!" cried Britain.
"Let it come!" said Alfred, wringing the Doctor's hand stoutly. "Think
of me sometimes, my old friend and guardian, as seriously as you can!
Adieu, Mr. Snitchey! Farewell, Mr. Craggs!"
"Coming down the road!" cried Britain.
"A kiss of Clemency Newcome for long acquaintance' sake--shake hands,
Britain--Marion, dearest heart, good bye! Sister Grace! remember!"
The quiet household figure, and the face so beautiful in its serenity,
were turned towards him in reply; but Marion's look and attitude
remained unchanged.
The coach was at the gate. There was a bustle with the luggage. The
coach drove away. Marion never moved.
"He waves his hat to you, my love," said Grace. "Your chosen husband,
darling. Look!"
The younger sister raised her head, and, for a moment, turned it. Then
turning back again, and fully meeting, for the first time, those calm
eyes, fell sobbing on her neck.
"Oh, Grace. God bless you! But I cannot bear to see it, Grace! It breaks
my heart."
PART THE SECOND.
[Illustration]
PART THE SECOND.
[Illustration]
SNITCHEY AND CRAGGS had a snug little office on the old Battle Ground,
where they drove a snug little business, and fought a great many small
pitched battles for a great many contending parties. Though it could
hardly be said of these conflicts that they were running fights--for in
truth they generally proceeded at a snail's pace--the part the Firm had
in them came so far within that general denomination, that now they took
a shot at this Plaintiff, and now aimed a chop at that Defendant, now
made a heavy charge at an estate in Chancery, and now had some light
skirmishing among an irregular body of small debtors, just as the
occasion served, and the enemy happened to present himself. The Gazette
was an important and profitable feature in some of their fields, as well
as in fields of greater renown; and in most of the Actions wherein they
shewed their generalship, it was afterwards observed by the combatants
that they had had great difficulty in making each other out, or in
knowing with any degree of distinctness what they were about, in
consequence of the vast amount of smoke by which they were surrounded.
