"What?" the young woman challenged belligerently.
"For two cents," he muttered darkly. "For two cents... Besides, and it
grieves me to inform you, your cap is not on straight. Also, it is not
a very tasteful creation at best. I could make a far more becoming cap
with my toes, asleep, and... yes, seasick as well."
Lute tossed her blond head defiantly, glanced at her comrades in
solicitation of support, and said:
"Oh, I don't know. It seems humanly reasonable that the three of us can
woman-handle a mere man of your elderly and insulting avoirdupois. What
do you say, girls? Let's rush him. He's not a minute under forty, and
he has an aneurism. Yes, and though loath to divulge family secrets,
he's got Meniere's Disease."
Ernestine, a small but robust blonde of eighteen, sprang from the piano
and joined her two comrades in a raid on the cushions of the deep
window seats. Side by side, a cushion in each hand, and with proper
distance between them cannily established for the swinging of the
cushions, they advanced upon the foe.
Forrest prepared for battle, then held up his hand for parley.
"'Fraid cat!" they taunted, in several at first, and then in chorus.
He shook his head emphatically.
"Just for that, and for all the rest of your insolences, the three of
you are going to get yours. All the wrongs of a lifetime are rising now
in my brain in a dazzling brightness. I shall go Berserk in a moment.
But first, and I speak as an agriculturist, and I address myself to
you, Lute, in all humility, in heaven's name what is Meniere's Disease?
Do sheep catch it?"
"Meniere's Disease is," Lute began,... "is what you've got. Sheep are
the only known living creatures that get it."
Ensued red war and chaos. Forrest made a football rush of the sort that
obtained in California before the adoption of Rugby; and the girls
broke the line to let him through, turned upon him, flanked him on
either side, and pounded him with cushions.
He turned, with widespread arms, extended fingers, each finger a hook,
and grappled the three. The battle became a whirlwind, a be-spurred man
the center, from which radiated flying draperies of flimsy silk,
disconnected slippers, boudoir caps, and hairpins. There were thuds
from the cushions, grunts from the man, squeals, yelps and giggles from
the girls, and from the totality of the combat inextinguishable
laughter and a ripping and tearing of fragile textures.
Dick Forrest found himself sprawled on the floor, the wind half knocked
out of him by shrewdly delivered cushions, his head buzzing from the
buffeting, and, in one hand, a trailing, torn, and generally disrupted
girdle of pale blue silk and pink roses.
In one doorway, cheeks flaming from the struggle, stood Rita, alert as
a fawn and ready to flee. In the other doorway, likewise flame-checked,
stood Ernestine in the commanding attitude of the Mother of the
Gracchi, the wreckage of her kimono wrapped severely about her and held
severely about her by her own waist-pressing arm. Lute, cornered behind
the piano, attempted to run but was driven back by the menace of
Forrest, who, on hands and knees, stamped loudly with the palms of his
hands on the hardwood floor, rolled his head savagely, and emitted
bull-like roars.
