_Antony_--"What an air of authority! It appears to me that you are
growing taller ..."
In fact, Hilarion's height has progressively increased; and, in order
not to see him, Antony closes his eyes.
_Hilarion_--"Make your mind easy, good hermit. Let us sit down here, on
this big stone, as of yore, when, at the break of day, I used to salute
you, addressing you as 'Bright morning star'; and you at once began to
give me instruction. It is not finished yet. The moon affords us
sufficient light. I am all attention."
He has drawn forth a calamus from his girdle, and, cross-legged on the
ground, with his roll of papyrus in his hand, he raises his head towards
Antony, who, seated beside him, keeps his forehead bent.
"Is not the word of God confirmed for us by the miracles? And yet the
sorcerers of Pharaoh worked miracles. Other impostors could do the same;
so here we may be deceived. What, then, is a miracle? An occurrence
which seems to us outside the limits of Nature. But do we know all
Nature's powers? And, from the mere fact that a thing ordinarily does
not astonish us, does it follow that we comprehend it?"
_Antony_--"It matters little; we must believe in the Scripture."
_Hilarion_--"Saint Paul, Origen, and some others did not interpret it
literally; but, if we explain it allegorically, it becomes the heritage
of a limited number of people, and the evidence of its truth vanishes.
What are we to do, then?"
_Antony_--"Leave it to the Church."
_Hilarion_--"Then the Scripture is useless?"
_Antony_--"Not at all. Although the Old Testament, I admit, has--well,
obscurities ... But the New shines forth with a pure light."
_Hilarion_--"And yet the Angel of the Annunciation, in Matthew, appears
to Joseph, whilst in Luke it is to Mary. The anointing of Jesus by a
woman comes to pass, according to the First Gospel, at the beginning of
his public life, but according to the three others, a few days before
his death. The drink which they offer him on the Cross is, in Matthew,
vinegar and gall, in Mark, wine and myrrh. If we follow Luke and
Matthew, the Apostles ought to take neither money nor bag--in fact, not
even sandals or a staff; while in Mark, on the contrary, Jesus forbids
them to carry with them anything except sandals and a staff. Here is
where I get lost ..."
_Antony_, in amazement--"In fact ... in fact ..."
_Hilarion_--"At the contact of the woman with the issue of blood, Jesus
turned round, and said, 'Who has touched me?' So, then, He did not know
who touched Him? That is opposed to the omniscience of Jesus. If the
tomb was watched by guards, the women had not to worry themselves about
an assistant to lift up the stone from the tomb. Therefore, there were
no guards there--or rather, the holy women were not there at all. At
Emmaues, He eats with His disciples, and makes them feel His wounds. It
is a human body, a material object, which can be weighed, and which,
nevertheless, passes through stone walls. Is this possible?"
