Bill flushed a little and dropped the discussion.  Baptiste the Red was
still waiting the final decision.  Stockard went up to him.
"It's this way, Baptiste.  I came to your village minded to go up the
Koyukuk.  I intended no wrong.  My heart was clean of evil.  It is still
clean.  Along comes this priest, as you call him.  I didn't bring him
here.  He'd have come whether I was here or not.  But now that he is
here, being of my people, I've got to stand by him.  And I'm going to.
Further, it will be no child's play.  When you have done, your village
will be silent and empty, your people wasted as after a famine.  True, we
will he gone; likewise the pick of your fighting men--"
"But those who remain shall be in peace, nor shall the word of strange
gods and the tongues of strange priests be buzzing in their ears."
Both men shrugged their shoulder and turned away, the half-breed going
back to his own camp.  The missionary called his two men to him, and they
fell into prayer.  Stockard and Bill attacked the few standing pines with
their axes, felling them into convenient breastworks.  The child had
fallen asleep, so the woman placed it on a heap of furs and lent a hand
in fortifying the camp.  Three sides were thus defended, the steep
declivity at the rear precluding attack from that direction.  When these
arrangements had been completed, the two men stalked into the open,
clearing away, here and there, the scattered underbrush.  From the
opposing camp came the booming of war-drums and the voices of the priests
stirring the people to anger.
"Worst of it is they'll come in rushes," Bill complained as they walked
back with shouldered axes.
"And wait till midnight, when the light gets dim for shooting."
"Can't start the ball a-rolling too early, then."  Bill exchanged the axe
for a rifle, and took a careful rest.  One of the medicine-men, towering
above his tribesmen, stood out distinctly.  Bill drew a bead on him.
"All ready?" he asked.
Stockard opened the ammunition box, placed the woman where she could
reload in safety, and gave the word.  The medicine-man dropped.  For a
moment there was silence, then a wild howl went up and a flight of bone
arrows fell short.
"I'd like to take a look at the beggar," Bill remarked, throwing a fresh
shell into place.  "I'll swear I drilled him clean between the eyes."
"Didn't work."  Stockard shook his head gloomily.  Baptiste had evidently
quelled the more warlike of his followers, and instead of precipitating
an attack in the bright light of day, the shot had caused a hasty exodus,
the Indians drawing out of the village beyond the zone of fire.
In the full tide of his proselyting fervor, borne along by the hand of
God, Sturges Owen would have ventured alone into the camp of the
unbeliever, equally prepared for miracle or martyrdom; but in the waiting
which ensued, the fever of conviction died away gradually, as the natural
man asserted itself.  Physical fear replaced spiritual hope; the love of
life, the love of God.  It was no new experience.  He could feel his
weakness coming on, and knew it of old time.  He had struggled against it
and been overcome by it before.  He remembered when the other men had
driven their paddles like mad in the van of a roaring ice-flood, how, at
the critical moment, in a panic of worldly terror, he had dropped his
paddle and besought wildly with his God for pity.  And there were other
times.  The recollection was not pleasant.  It brought shame to him that
his spirit should be so weak and his flesh so strong.  But the love of
life! the love of life!  He could not strip it from him.  Because of it
had his dim ancestors perpetuated their line; because of it was he
destined to perpetuate his.  His courage, if courage it might be called,
was bred of fanaticism.  The courage of Stockard and Bill was the
adherence to deep-rooted ideals.  Not that the love of life was less, but
the love of race tradition more; not that they were unafraid to die, but
that they were brave enough not to live at the price of shame.
