Freddie Drummond’s fright was due to Mary Condon, President of the
International Glove Workers’ Union No. 974.  He had seen her, first, from
the spectators’ gallery, at the annual convention of the Northwest
Federation of Labour, and he had seen her through Bill Totts’ eyes, and
that individual had been most favourably impressed by her.  She was not
Freddie Drummond’s sort at all.  What if she were a royal-bodied woman,
graceful and sinewy as a panther, with amazing black eyes that could fill
with fire or laughter-love, as the mood might dictate?  He detested women
with a too exuberant vitality and a lack of . . . well, of inhibition.
Freddie Drummond accepted the doctrine of evolution because it was quite
universally accepted by college men, and he flatly believed that man had
climbed up the ladder of life out of the weltering muck and mess of lower
and monstrous organic things.  But he was a trifle ashamed of this
genealogy, and preferred not to think of it.  Wherefore, probably, he
practised his iron inhibition and preached it to others, and preferred
women of his own type, who could shake free of this bestial and
regrettable ancestral line and by discipline and control emphasize the
wideness of the gulf that separated them from what their dim forbears had
been.
Bill Totts had none of these considerations.  He had liked Mary Condon
from the moment his eyes first rested on her in the convention hall, and
he had made it a point, then and there, to find out who she was.  The
next time he met her, and quite by accident, was when he was driving an
express waggon for Pat Morrissey.  It was in a lodging-house in Mission
Street, where he had been called to take a trunk into storage.  The
landlady’s daughter had called him and led him to the little bedroom, the
occupant of which, a glove-maker, had just been removed to hospital.  But
Bill did not know this.  He stooped, up-ended the trunk, which was a
large one, got it on his shoulder, and struggled to his feet with his
back toward the open door.  At that moment he heard a woman’s voice.
“Belong to the union?” was the question asked.
“Aw, what’s it to you?” he retorted.  “Run along now, an’ git outa my
way.  I wanta turn round.”
The next he know, big as he was, he was whirled half around and sent
reeling backward, the trunk overbalancing him, till he fetched up with a
crash against the wall.  He started to swear, but at the same instant
found himself looking into Mary Condon’s flashing, angry eyes.
“Of course I b’long to the union,” he said.  “I was only kiddin’ you.”
“Where’s your card?” she demanded in businesslike tones.
“In my pocket.  But I can’t git it out now.  This trunk’s too damn heavy.
Come on down to the waggon an’ I’ll show it to you.”
“Put that trunk down,” was the command.
“What for?  I got a card, I’m tellin’ you.”
