Another centre from which feminine influence radiated into the national
literature was the Palais du Luxembourg, where Mademoiselle d'Orleans, in
disgrace at court on account of her share in the Fronde, held a little
court of her own, and for want of anything else to employ her active
spirit busied herself with literature.  One fine morning it occurred to
this princess to ask all the persons who frequented her court, among whom
were Madame de Sevigne, Madame de la Fayette, and La Rochefoucauld, to
write their own portraits, and she at once set the example.  It was
understood that defects and virtues were to be spoken of with like
candor.  The idea was carried out; those who were not clever or bold
enough to write for themselves employing the pen of a friend.
    "Such," says M. Cousin, "was the pastime of Mademoiselle and her
    friends during the years 1657 and 1658: from this pastime proceeded a
    complete literature.  In 1659 Segrais revised these portraits, added
    a considerable number in prose and even in verse, and published the
    whole in a handsome quarto volume, admirably printed, and now become
    very rare, under the title, 'Divers Portraits.'  Only thirty copies
    were printed, not for sale, but to be given as presents by
    Mademoiselle.  The work had a prodigious success.  That which had
    made the fortune of Mademoiselle de Scudery's romances--the pleasure
    of seeing one's portrait a little flattered, curiosity to see that of
    others, the passion which the middle class always have had and will
    have for knowing what goes on in the aristocratic world (at that time
    not very easy of access), the names of the illustrious persons who
    were here for the first time described physically and morally with
    the utmost detail, great ladies transformed all at once into writers,
    and unconsciously inventing a new manner of writing, of which no book
    gave the slightest idea, and which was the ordinary manner of
    speaking of the aristocracy; this undefinable mixture of the natural,
    the easy, and at the same time of the agreeable, and supremely
    distinguished--all this charmed the court and the town, and very
    early in the year 1659 permission was asked of Mademoiselle to give a
    new edition of the privileged book for the use of the public in
    general."
The fashion thus set, portraits multiplied throughout France, until in
1688 La Bruyere adopted the form in his "Characters," and ennobled it by
divesting it of personality.  We shall presently see that a still greater
work than La Bruyere's also owed its suggestion to a woman, whose salon
was hardly a less fascinating resort than the Hotel de Rambouillet
itself.
In proportion as the literature of a country is enriched and culture
becomes more generally diffused, personal influence is less effective in
the formation of taste and in the furtherance of social advancement.  It
is no longer the coterie which acts on literature, but literature which
acts on the coterie; the circle represented by the word _public_ is ever
widening, and ambition, poising itself in order to hit a more distant
mark, neglects the successes of the salon.  What was once lavished
prodigally in conversation is reserved for the volume or the "article,"
and the effort is not to betray originality rather than to communicate
it.  As the old coach-roads have sunk into disuse through the creation of
railways, so journalism tends more and more to divert information from
the channel of conversation into the channel of the Press; no one is
satisfied with a more circumscribed audience than that very indeterminate
abstraction "the public," and men find a vent for their opinions not in
talk, but in "copy."  We read the _Athenaeum_ askance at the tea-table,
and take notes from the _Philosophical Journal_ at a soiree; we invite
our friends that we may thrust a book into their hands, and presuppose an
exclusive desire in the "ladies" to discuss their own matters, "that we
may crackle the _Times_" at our ease.  In fact, the evident tendency of
things to contract personal communication within the narrowest limits
makes us tremble lest some further development of the electric telegraph
should reduce us to a society of mutes, or to a sort of insects
communicating by ingenious antenna of our own invention.  Things were far
from having reached this pass in the last century; but even then
literature and society had outgrown the nursing of coteries, and although
many _salons_ of that period were worthy successors of the Hotel de
Rambouillet, they were simply a recreation, not an influence.  Enviable
evenings, no doubt, were passed in them; and if we could be carried back
to any of them at will, we should hardly know whether to choose the
Wednesday dinner at Madame Geoffrin's, with d'Alembert, Mademoiselle de
l'Espinasse, Grimm, and the rest, or the graver society which, thirty
years later, gathered round Condorcet and his lovely young wife.  The
_salon_ retained its attractions, but its power was gone: the stream of
life had become too broad and deep for such small rills to affect it.
