The tree looked as if made of glass or colored sugar; for she could see
through the red cherries, the green leaves, and the brown branches. An
agreeable smell met her nose; and she said at once, as any child
would, "I smell candy!" She picked a cherry and ate it. Oh, how good it
was!--all sugar and no stone. The next discovery was such a delightful
one that she nearly fell off her perch; for by touching her tongue here
and there, she found that the whole tree was made of candy. Think what
fun to sit and break off twigs of barley sugar, candied cherries, and
leaves that tasted like peppermint and sassafras!
Lily rocked and ate till she finished the top of the little tree;
then she climbed down and strolled along, making more surprising and
agreeable discoveries as she went.
What looked like snow under her feet was white sugar; the rocks were
lumps of chocolate, the flowers of all colors and tastes; and every
sort of fruit grew on these delightful trees. Little white houses soon
appeared; and here lived the dainty candy-people, all made of the best
sugar, and painted to look like real people.
Dear little men and women, looking as if they had stepped off of wedding
cakes and bonbons, went about in their gay sugar clothes, laughing
and talking in the sweetest voices. Bits of babies rocked in open-work
cradles, and sugar boys and girls played with sugar toys in the most
natural way. Carriages rolled along the jujube streets, drawn by the
red and yellow barley horses we all love so well; cows fed in the green
fields, and sugar birds sang in the trees.
Lily listened, and in a moment she understood what the song said,--
  "Sweet! Sweet!
  Come, come and eat,
  Dear little girls
  With yellow curls;
  For here you'll find
  Sweets to your mind.
  On every tree
  Sugar-plums you'll see;
  In every dell
  Grows the caramel.
  Over every wall
  Gum-drops fall;
  Molasses flows
  Where our river goes
  Under your feet
  Lies sugar sweet;
  Over your head
  Grow almonds red.
  Our lily and rose
  Are not for the nose;
  Our flowers we pluck
  To eat or suck
  And, oh! what bliss
  When two friends kiss,
  For they honey sip
  From lip to lip!
  And all you meet,
  In house or street,
  At work or play,
  Sweethearts are they.
  So, little dear,
  Pray feel no fear;
  Go where you will;
  Eat, eat your fill.
  Here is a feast
  From west to east;
  And you can say,
  Ere you go away,
  'At last I stand
  In dear Candy-land,
  And no more can stuff;
  For once I've enough.'
  Sweet! Sweet!
  Tweet! Tweet!
  Tweedle-dee!
  Tweedle-dee!"
"That is the most interesting song I ever heard," said Lily, clapping
her sticky hands and dancing along toward a fine palace of white cream
candy, with pillars of striped peppermint stick, and a roof of frosting
that made it look like the Milan Cathedral.
"I'll live here, and eat candy all day long, with no tiresome school or
patchwork to spoil my fun," said Lily.
