"He, he! Mr. Alfred, her old playfellow too, you remember, Mr. Craggs,"
said Snitchey, with a disconcerted laugh; "knew her almost from a baby!"
"Which makes it the more probable that she may be tired of his idea,"
calmly pursued the client, "and not indisposed to exchange it for the
newer one of another lover, who presents himself (or is presented
by his horse) under romantic circumstances; has the not unfavorable
reputation--with a country girl--of having lived thoughtlessly and
gaily, without doing much harm to anybody; and who, for his youth and
figure, and so forth--this may seem foppish again, but upon my soul I
don't mean it in that light--might perhaps pass muster in a crowd with
Mr. Alfred himself."
There was no gainsaying the last clause, certainly; and Mr. Snitchey,
glancing at him, thought so. There was something naturally graceful and
pleasant in the very carelessness of his air. It seemed to suggest, of
his comely face and well-knit figure, that they might be greatly better
if he chose: and that, once roused and made earnest (but he never had
been earnest yet), he could be full of fire and purpose. "A dangerous
sort of libertine," thought the shrewd lawyer, "to seem to catch the
spark he wants from a young lady's eyes."
"Now, observe, Snitchey," he continued, rising and taking him by the
button, "and Craggs," taking him by the button also, and placing one
partner on either side of him, so that neither might evade him. "I
don't ask you for any advice. You are right to keep quite aloof from
all parties in such a matter, which is not one in which grave men like
you could interfere, on any side. I am briefly going to review in
half-a-dozen words, my position and intention, and then I shall leave it
to you to do the best for me, in money matters, that you can: seeing,
that, if I run away with the Doctor's beautiful daughter (as I hope to
do, and to become another man under her bright influence), it will be,
for the moment, more chargeable than running away alone. But I shall
soon make all that up in an altered life."
"I think it will be better not to hear this, Mr. Craggs?" said Snitchey,
looking at him across the client.
"_I_ think not," said Craggs.--Both listening attentively.
"Well! You needn't hear it," replied their client. "I'll mention it,
however. I don't mean to ask the Doctor's consent, because he wouldn't
give it me. But I mean to do the Doctor no wrong or harm, because
(besides there being nothing serious in such trifles, as he says) I hope
to rescue his child, my Marion, from what I see--I _know_--she dreads,
and contemplates with misery: that is, the return of this old lover. If
anything in the world is true, it is true that she dreads his return.
Nobody is injured so far. I am so harried and worried here just now,
that I lead the life of a flying-fish; skulk about in the dark, am shut
out of my own house, and warned off my own grounds: but that house,
and those grounds, and many an acre besides, will come back to me one
day, as you know and say; and Marion will probably be richer--on your
showing, who are never sanguine--ten years hence as my wife, than as the
wife of Alfred Heathfield, whose return she dreads (remember that), and
in whom or in any man, my passion is not surpassed. Who is injured yet?
It is a fair case throughout. My right is as good as his, if she decide
in my favor; and I will try my right by her alone. You will like to know
no more after this, and I will tell you no more. Now you know my
purpose, and wants. When must I leave here?"
