There is never lack of exercise in small-boat sailing, and the hard work
is not only part of the fun of it, but it beats the doctors.  San
Francisco Bay is no mill pond.  It is a large and draughty and variegated
piece of water.  I remember, one winter evening, trying to enter the
mouth of the Sacramento.  There was a freshet on the river, the flood
tide from the bay had been beaten back into a strong ebb, and the lusty
west wind died down with the sun.  It was just sunset, and with a fair to
middling breeze, dead aft, we stood still in the rapid current.  We were
squarely in the mouth of the river; but there was no anchorage and we
drifted backward, faster and faster, and dropped anchor outside as the
last breath of wind left us.  The night came on, beautiful and warm and
starry.  My one companion cooked supper, while on deck I put everything
in shape Bristol fashion.  When we turned in at nine o'clock the weather-
promise was excellent.  (If I had carried a barometer I'd have known
better.)  By two in the morning our shrouds were thrumming in a piping
breeze, and I got up and gave her more scope on her hawser.  Inside
another hour there was no doubt that we were in for a southeaster.
It is not nice to leave a warm bed and get out of a bad anchorage in a
black blowy night, but we arose to the occasion, put in two reefs, and
started to heave up.  The winch was old, and the strain of the jumping
head sea was too much for it.  With the winch out of commission, it was
impossible to heave up by hand.  We knew, because we tried it and
slaughtered our hands.  Now a sailor hates to lose an anchor.  It is a
matter of pride.  Of course, we could have buoyed ours and slipped it.
Instead, however, I gave her still more hawser, veered her, and dropped
the second anchor.
There was little sleep after that, for first one and then the other of us
would be rolled out of our bunks.  The increasing size of the seas told
us we were dragging, and when we struck the scoured channel we could tell
by the feel of it that our two anchors were fairly skating across.  It
was a deep channel, the farther edge of it rising steeply like the wall
of a canyon, and when our anchors started up that wall they hit in and
held.
Yet, when we fetched up, through the darkness we could hear the seas
breaking on the solid shore astern, and so near was it that we shortened
the skiff's painter.
Daylight showed us that between the stern of the skiff and destruction
was no more than a score of feet.  And how it did blow!  There were
times, in the gusts, when the wind must have approached a velocity of
seventy or eighty miles an hour.  But the anchors held, and so nobly that
our final anxiety was that the for'ard bitts would be jerked clean out of
the boat.  All day the sloop alternately ducked her nose under and sat
down on her stern; and it was not till late afternoon that the storm
broke in one last and worst mad gust.  For a full five minutes an
absolute dead calm prevailed, and then, with the suddenness of a
thunderclap, the wind snorted out of the southwest--a shift of eight
points and a boisterous gale.  Another night of it was too much for us,
and we hove up by hand in a cross head-sea.  It was not stiff work.  It
was heart-breaking.  And I know we were both near to crying from the hurt
and the exhaustion.  And when we did get the first anchor up-and-down we
couldn't break it out.  Between seas we snubbed her nose down to it, took
plenty of turns, and stood clear as she jumped.  Almost everything
smashed and parted except the anchor-hold.  The chocks were jerked out,
the rail torn off, and the very covering-board splintered, and still the
anchor held.  At last, hoisting the reefed mainsail and slacking off a
few of the hard-won feet of the chain, we sailed the anchor out.  It was
nip and tuck, though, and there were times when the boat was knocked down
flat.  We repeated the manoeuvre with the remaining anchor, and in the
gathering darkness fled into the shelter of the river's mouth.
