TIMON.
You gods, reward them!
Prithee, man, look cheerly. These old fellows
Have their ingratitude in them hereditary;
Their blood is cak'd, 'tis cold, it seldom flows;
'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind;
And nature, as it grows again toward earth,
Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy.
[To a Servant.] Go to Ventidius.--[To Flavius.]
Prithee, be not sad,
Thou art true and honest; ingenuously I speak,
No blame belongs to thee.--[To Servant.] Ventidius lately
Buried his father; by whose death he's stepp'd
Into a great estate. When he was poor,
Imprison'd and in scarcity of friends,
I clear'd him with five talents; greet him from me,
Bid him suppose some good necessity
Touches his friend, which craves to be remember'd
With those five talents.
[Exit Servant.]
[To Flavius.]
That had, give't these fellows
To whom 'tis instant due. Ne'er speak, or think
That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.
FLAVIUS.
I would I could not think it:
That thought is bounty's foe;
Being free itself, it thinks all others so.
[Exeunt.]
Act III.
Scene I. Athens. A Room in LUCULLUS' House.
[FLAMINIUS waiting.]
[Enter a SERVANT to him.]
SERVANT.
I have told my lord of you; he is coming down to you.
FLAMINIUS.
I thank you, sir.
[Enter LUCULLUS.]
SERVANT.
Here's my lord.
LUCULLUS.
[Aside.] One of Lord Timon's men! a gift, I warrant. Why, this
hits right; I dreamt of a silver basin and ewer to-night.
Flaminius, honest Flaminius, you are very respectively
welcome, sir. Fill me some wine.
[Exit SERVANT.]
And how does that honourable, complete, freehearted
gentleman of Athens, thy very bountiful good lord and master?
FLAMINIUS.
His health is well, sir.
LUCULLUS.
I am right glad that his health is well, sir. And what
hast thou there under thy cloak, pretty Flaminius?
FLAMINIUS.
Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir; which in my lord's
behalf, I come to entreat your honour to supply; who, having
great and instant occasion to use fifty talents, hath sent to
your lordship to furnish him, nothing doubting your present
assistance therein.
LUCULLIUS.
La, la, la, la! 'Nothing doubting,' says he? Alas, good
lord! a noble gentleman 'tis, if he would not keep so good a
house. Many a time and often I ha' dined with him, and told him
on't; and come again to supper to him, of purpose to have him
spend less; and yet he would embrace no counsel, take no warning
by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty is his. I ha'
told him on't, but I could ne'er get him from it.
[Re-enter SERVANT with wine.]
SERVANT.
Please your lordship, here is the wine.
LUCULLUS.
Flaminius, I have noted thee always wise. Here's to thee.
FLAMINIUS.
Your lordship speaks your pleasure.
LUCULLUS.
I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt spirit,
give thee thy due, and one that knows what belongs to reason, and
canst use the time well, if the time use thee well: good parts in
thee. [To SERVANT.]--Get you gone, sirrah.--
