8.  "One or more."
9.  As a name of the class of Things to which the whole Diagram is
assigned.
10.  A Proposition containing two statements.  For example, "some
new Cakes are nice and some are not-nice."
11.  When the whole class, thus divided, is "exhausted" among the
sets into which it is divided, there being no member of it which
does not belong to some one of them.  For example, the class "new
Cakes" is "exhaustively" divided into "nice" and "not-nice" since
EVERY new Cake must be one or the other.
12.  When a man cannot make up his mind which of two parties he
will join, he is said to be "sitting on the fence"--not being able
to decide on which side he will jump down.
13.  "Some x are y" and "no x are y'".
14.  A Proposition, whose Subject is a single Thing, is called
'Individual'.  For example, "I am happy", "John is not at home".
These are Universal Propositions, being the same as "all the I's
that exist are happy", "ALL the Johns, that I am now considering,
are not at home".
15.  Propositions beginning with "some" or "all".
16.  When they begin with "some" or "no".  For example, "some
abc are def" may be re-arranged as "some bf are acde", each being
equivalent to "some abcdef exist".
17.  Some tigers are fierce, No tigers are not-fierce.
18.  Some hard-boiled eggs are unwholesome, No hard-boiled
eggs are wholesome.
19.  Some I's are happy, No I's are unhappy.
20.  Some Johns are not at home, No Johns are at home.
21.  The Things, in each compartment of the larger Diagram, possess
THREE Attributes, whose symbols will be found written at three of
the CORNERS of the compartment (except in the case of m', which is
not actually inserted in the Diagram, but is SUPPOSED to stand at
each of its four outer corners).
22.  If the Universe of Things be divided with regard to three
different Attributes; and if two Propositions be given, containing
two different couples of these Attributes; and if from these we
can prove a third Proposition, containing the two Attributes that
have not yet occurred together; the given Propositions are called
'the Premisses', the third one 'the Conclusion', and the whole set
'a Syllogism'.  For example, the Premisses might be "no m are x'"
and "all m' are y"; and it might be possible to prove from them
a Conclusion containing x and y.
23.  If an Attribute occurs in both Premisses, the Term containing
it is called 'the Middle Term'.  For example, if the Premisses are
"some m are x" and "no m are y'", the class of "m-Things" is 'the
Middle Term.'
If an Attribute occurs in one Premiss, and its contradictory in the
other, the Terms containing them may be called 'the Middle Terms'.
For example, if the Premisses are "no m are x'" and "all m' are
y", the two classes of "m-Things" and "m'-Things" may be called
'the Middle Terms'.
