"'It was _not_ the echoes,' said the goblin.
"Gabriel Grub was paralysed, and could make no reply.
"'What do you do here on Christmas Eve?' said the goblin, sternly.
"'I came to dig a grave, sir,' stammered Gabriel Grub.
"'What man wanders among graves and churchyards on such a night as
this?' cried the goblin.
"'Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!' screamed a wild chorus of voices that
seemed to fill the churchyard. Gabriel looked fearfully round--nothing
was to be seen.
"'What have you got in that bottle?' said the goblin.
"'Hollands, sir,' replied the sexton, trembling more than ever; for
he had bought it of the smugglers, and he thought that perhaps his
questioner might be in the excise department of the goblins.
"'Who drinks Hollands alone, and in the churchyard, on such a night as
this?' said the goblin.
"'Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!' exclaimed the wild voices again.
"The goblin leered maliciously at the terrified sexton, and then
raising his voice exclaimed:
"'And who, then, is our fair and lawful prize?'
"To this inquiry the invisible chorus replied, in a strain that sounded
like the voices of many choristers singing to the mighty swell of the
old church organ--a strain that seemed borne to the sexton's ears upon
a wild wind, and to die away as it passed onward; but the burden of the
reply was still the same, 'Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!'
"The goblin grinned a broader grin than before, as he said, 'Well,
Gabriel, what do you say to this?'
"The sexton gasped for breath.
"'What do you think of this, Gabriel?' said the goblin, kicking up
his feet in the air on either side of the tombstone, and looking
at the turned-up points with as much complacency as if he had been
contemplating the most fashionable pair of Wellingtons in all Bond
Street.
"'It's--it's--very curious, sir,' replied the sexton, half dead with
fright; 'very curious, and very pretty, but I think I'll go back and
finish my work, sir, if you please.'
"'Work!' said the goblin, 'what work?'
"'The grave, sir; making the grave,' stammered the sexton.
"'Oh, the grave, eh?' said the goblin; 'who makes graves at a time when
all other men are merry, and takes a pleasure in it?'
"Again the mysterious voices replied, 'Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!'
"'I'm afraid my friends want you, Gabriel,' said the goblin, thrusting
his tongue further into his cheek than ever--and a most astonishing
tongue it was--'I'm afraid my friends want you, Gabriel,' said the
goblin.
"'Under favour, sir,' replied the horror-stricken sexton, 'I don't
think they can, sir; they don't know me, sir; I don't think the
gentlemen have ever seen me, sir.'
"'Oh yes, they have,' replied the goblin; 'we know the man with the
sulky face and grim scowl, that came down the street to-night, throwing
his evil looks at the children, and grasping his burying-spade the
tighter. We know the man who struck the boy in the envious malice of
his heart, because the boy could be merry, and he could not. We know
him, we know him.'
