Trotty stood aghast, and his legs shook under him.  He seemed to have
starved a garrison of five hundred men with his own hand.
‘Who eats tripe?’ said Mr. Filer, warmly.  ‘Who eats tripe?’
Trotty made a miserable bow.
‘You do, do you?’ said Mr. Filer.  ‘Then I’ll tell you something.  You
snatch your tripe, my friend, out of the mouths of widows and orphans.’
‘I hope not, sir,’ said Trotty, faintly.  ‘I’d sooner die of want!’
‘Divide the amount of tripe before-mentioned, Alderman,’ said Mr. Filer,
‘by the estimated number of existing widows and orphans, and the result
will be one pennyweight of tripe to each.  Not a grain is left for that
man.  Consequently, he’s a robber.’
Trotty was so shocked, that it gave him no concern to see the Alderman
finish the tripe himself.  It was a relief to get rid of it, anyhow.
‘And what do you say?’ asked the Alderman, jocosely, of the red-faced
gentleman in the blue coat.  ‘You have heard friend Filer.  What do _you
say_?’
‘What’s it possible to say?’ returned the gentleman.  ‘What _is_ to be
said?  Who can take any interest in a fellow like this,’ meaning Trotty;
‘in such degenerate times as these?  Look at him.  What an object!  The
good old times, the grand old times, the great old times!  _Those_ were
the times for a bold peasantry, and all that sort of thing.  Those were
the times for every sort of thing, in fact.  There’s nothing now-a-days.
Ah!’ sighed the red-faced gentleman.  ‘The good old times, the good old
times!’
The gentleman didn’t specify what particular times he alluded to; nor did
he say whether he objected to the present times, from a disinterested
consciousness that they had done nothing very remarkable in producing
himself.
‘The good old times, the good old times,’ repeated the gentleman.  ‘What
times they were!  They were the only times.  It’s of no use talking about
any other times, or discussing what the people are in _these_ times.  You
don’t call these, times, do you?  I don’t.  Look into Strutt’s Costumes,
and see what a Porter used to be, in any of the good old English reigns.’
‘He hadn’t, in his very best circumstances, a shirt to his back, or a
stocking to his foot; and there was scarcely a vegetable in all England
for him to put into his mouth,’ said Mr. Filer.  ‘I can prove it, by
tables.’
But still the red-faced gentleman extolled the good old times, the grand
old times, the great old times.  No matter what anybody else said, he
still went turning round and round in one set form of words concerning
them; as a poor squirrel turns and turns in its revolving cage; touching
the mechanism, and trick of which, it has probably quite as distinct
perceptions, as ever this red-faced gentleman had of his deceased
Millennium.
It is possible that poor Trotty’s faith in these very vague Old Times was
not entirely destroyed, for he felt vague enough at that moment.  One
thing, however, was plain to him, in the midst of his distress; to wit,
that however these gentlemen might differ in details, his misgivings of
that morning, and of many other mornings, were well founded.  ‘No, no.
We can’t go right or do right,’ thought Trotty in despair.  ‘There is no
good in us.  We are born bad!’
