"Bughouse," Mr. Pike grinned at me.  "I've seen some bughouse crews in my
time, but this one's the limit."
"What are you going to do?" I asked.  "The man will bleed to death."
"And good riddance," he answered promptly.  "We'll have our hands full of
him until we can lose him somehow.  When he gets easy I'll sew him up,
that's all, if I have to ease him with a clout of the jaw."
I glanced at the mate's huge paw and appreciated its anaesthetic
qualities.  Out on deck again, I saw Captain West on the poop, hands
still in pockets, quite uninterested, gazing at a blue break in the sky
to the north-east.  More than the mates and the maniac, more than the
drunken callousness of the men, did this quiet figure, hands in pockets,
impress upon me that I was in a different world from any I had known.
Wada broke in upon my thoughts by telling me he had been sent to say that
Miss West was serving tea in the cabin.
CHAPTER IV
The contrast, as I entered the cabin, was startling.  All contrasts
aboard the _Elsinore_ promised to be startling.  Instead of the cold,
hard deck my feet sank into soft carpet.  In place of the mean and narrow
room, built of naked iron, where I had left the lunatic, I was in a
spacious and beautiful apartment.  With the bawling of the men's voices
still in my ears, and with the pictures of their drink-puffed and filthy
faces still vivid under my eyelids, I found myself greeted by a delicate-
faced, prettily-gowned woman who sat beside a lacquered oriental table on
which rested an exquisite tea-service of Canton china.  All was repose
and calm.  The steward, noiseless-footed, expressionless, was a shadow,
scarcely noticed, that drifted into the room on some service and drifted
out again.
Not at once could I relax, and Miss West, serving my tea, laughed and
said:
"You look as if you had been seeing things.  The steward tells me a man
has been overboard.  I fancy the cold water must have sobered him."
I resented her unconcern.
"The man is a lunatic," I said.  "This ship is no place for him.  He
should be sent ashore to some hospital."
"I am afraid, if we begin that, we'd have to send two-thirds of our
complement ashore--one lump?
"Yes, please," I answered.  "But the man has terribly wounded himself.  He
is liable to bleed to death."
She looked at me for a moment, her gray eyes serious and scrutinizing, as
she passed me my cup; then laughter welled up in her eyes, and she shook
her head reprovingly.
"Now please don't begin the voyage by being shocked, Mr. Pathurst.  Such
things are very ordinary occurrences.  You'll get used to them.  You must
remember some queer creatures go down to the sea in ships.  The man is
safe.  Trust Mr. Pike to attend to his wounds.  I've never sailed with
Mr. Pike, but I've heard enough about him.  Mr. Pike is quite a surgeon.
Last voyage, they say, he performed a successful amputation, and so
elated was he that he turned his attention on the carpenter, who happened
to be suffering from some sort of indigestion.  Mr. Pike was so convinced
of the correctness of his diagnosis that he tried to bribe the carpenter
into having his appendix removed."  She broke off to laugh heartily, then
added: "They say he offered the poor man just pounds and pounds of
tobacco to consent to the operation."
