That, among the people he frequented, was the usual attitude toward such
opportunities. There were too many, they were a nuisance, one had to
defend one's self! He even remembered wondering, at the moment,
whether to a really fine taste the exceptional thing could ever become
indifferent through habit; whether the appetite for beauty was so soon
dulled that it could be kept alive only by privation. Here, at any rate,
was a fine chance to experiment with such a hunger: he almost wished he
might stay on in Paris long enough to take the measure of Miss Viner's
receptivity.
She was still dwelling on his promise, "It's too beautiful of you! Oh,
don't you THINK you'll be able to get seats?" And then, after a pause of
brimming appreciation: "I wonder if you'll think me horrid?--but it may
be my only chance; and if you can't get places for us all, wouldn't you
perhaps just take ME? After all, the Farlows may have seen it!"
He had not, of course, thought her horrid, but only the more engaging,
for being so natural, and so unashamed of showing the frank greed of her
famished youth. "Oh, you shall go somehow!" he had gaily promised her;
and she had dropped back with a sigh of pleasure as their cab passed
into the dimly-lit streets of the Farlows' quarter beyond the Seine...
This little passage came back to him the next morning, as he opened his
hotel window on the early roar of the Northern Terminus.
The girl was there, in the room next to him. That had been the first
point in his waking consciousness. The second was a sense of relief at
the obligation imposed on him by this unexpected turn of everts. To
wake to the necessity of action, to postpone perforce the fruitless
contemplation of his private grievance, was cause enough for gratitude,
even if the small adventure in which he found himself involved had not,
on its own merits, roused an instinctive curiosity to see it through.
When he and his companion, the night before, had reached the Farlows'
door in the rue de la Chaise, it was only to find, after repeated
assaults on its panels, that the Farlows were no longer there. They
had moved away the week before, not only from their apartment but from
Paris; and Miss Viner's breach with Mrs. Murrett had been too sudden to
permit her letter and telegram to overtake them. Both communications,
no doubt, still reposed in a pigeon-hole of the loge; but its custodian,
when drawn from his lair, sulkily declined to let Miss Viner verify the
fact, and only flung out, in return for Darrow's bribe, the statement
that the Americans had gone to Joigny.
To pursue them there at that hour was manifestly impossible, and Miss
Viner, disturbed but not disconcerted by this new obstacle, had quite
simply acceded to Darrow's suggestion that she should return for what
remained of the night to the hotel where he had sent his luggage.
