The truth concerning the soul can only be established by the word of
God. Still, we may venture to assert what is probable both concerning
soul and body.
The creative powers were aware of our tendency to excess. And so when
they made the belly to be a receptacle for food, in order that men might
not perish by insatiable gluttony, they formed the convolutions of the
intestines, in this way retarding the passage of food through the body,
lest mankind should be absorbed in eating and drinking, and the whole
race become impervious to divine philosophy.
The creation of bones and flesh was on this wise. The foundation of
these is the marrow which binds together body and soul, and the marrow
is made out of such of the primary triangles as are adapted by their
perfection to produce all the four elements. These God took and mingled
them in due proportion, making as many kinds of marrow as there were
hereafter to be kinds of souls. The receptacle of the divine soul he
made round, and called that portion of the marrow brain, intending that
the vessel containing this substance should be the head. The remaining
part he divided into long and round figures, and to these as to anchors,
fastening the mortal soul, he proceeded to make the rest of the body,
first forming for both parts a covering of bone. The bone was formed by
sifting pure smooth earth and wetting it with marrow. It was then thrust
alternately into fire and water, and thus rendered insoluble by either.
Of bone he made a globe which he placed around the brain, leaving a
narrow opening, and around the marrow of the neck and spine he formed
the vertebrae, like hinges, which extended from the head through the
whole of the trunk. And as the bone was brittle and liable to mortify
and destroy the marrow by too great rigidity and susceptibility to heat
and cold, he contrived sinews and flesh--the first to give flexibility,
the second to guard against heat and cold, and to be a protection
against falls, containing a warm moisture, which in summer exudes and
cools the body, and in winter is a defence against cold. Having this in
view, the Creator mingled earth with fire and water and mixed with them
a ferment of acid and salt, so as to form pulpy flesh. But the sinews
he made of a mixture of bone and unfermented flesh, giving them a
mean nature between the two, and a yellow colour. Hence they were more
glutinous than flesh, but softer than bone. The bones which have most of
the living soul within them he covered with the thinnest film of
flesh, those which have least of it, he lodged deeper. At the joints he
diminished the flesh in order not to impede the flexure of the limbs,
and also to avoid clogging the perceptions of the mind. About the
thighs and arms, which have no sense because there is little soul in the
marrow, and about the inner bones, he laid the flesh thicker. For where
the flesh is thicker there is less feeling, except in certain parts
which the Creator has made solely of flesh, as for example, the tongue.
Had the combination of solid bone and thick flesh been consistent with
acute perceptions, the Creator would have given man a sinewy and fleshy
head, and then he would have lived twice as long. But our creators were
of opinion that a shorter life which was better was preferable to a
longer which was worse, and therefore they covered the head with thin
bone, and placed the sinews at the extremity of the head round the neck,
and fastened the jawbones to them below the face. And they framed the
mouth, having teeth and tongue and lips, with a view to the necessary
and the good; for food is a necessity, and the river of speech is the
best of rivers. Still, the head could not be left a bare globe of bone
on account of the extremes of heat and cold, nor be allowed to become
dull and senseless by an overgrowth of flesh. Wherefore it was covered
by a peel or skin which met and grew by the help of the cerebral humour.
The diversity of the sutures was caused by the struggle of the food
against the courses of the soul. The skin of the head was pierced by
fire, and out of the punctures came forth a moisture, part liquid,
and part of a skinny nature, which was hardened by the pressure of the
external cold and became hair. And God gave hair to the head of man
to be a light covering, so that it might not interfere with his
perceptions. Nails were formed by combining sinew, skin, and bone, and
were made by the creators with a view to the future when, as they knew,
women and other animals who would require them would be framed out of
man.
