But when the flesh wastes and returns into the veins there is
discoloured blood as well as air in the veins, having acid and salt
qualities, from which is generated every sort of phlegm and bile. All
things go the wrong way and cease to give nourishment to the body, no
longer preserving their natural courses, but at war with themselves
and destructive to the constitution of the body. The oldest part of the
flesh which is hard to decompose blackens from long burning, and from
being corroded grows bitter, and as the bitter element refines away,
becomes acid. When tinged with blood the bitter substance has a red
colour, and this when mixed with black takes the hue of grass; or again,
the bitter substance has an auburn colour, when new flesh is decomposed
by the internal flame. To all which phenomena some physician or
philosopher who was able to see the one in many has given the name of
bile. The various kinds of bile have names answering to their colours.
Lymph or serum is of two kinds: first, the whey of blood, which is
gentle; secondly, the secretion of dark and bitter bile, which, when
mingled under the influence of heat with salt, is malignant and
is called acid phlegm. There is also white phlegm, formed by the
decomposition of young and tender flesh, and covered with little
bubbles, separately invisible, but becoming visible when collected.
The water of tears and perspiration and similar substances is also the
watery part of fresh phlegm. All these humours become sources of disease
when the blood is replenished in irregular ways and not by food or
drink. The danger, however, is not so great when the foundation remains,
for then there is a possibility of recovery. But when the substance
which unites the flesh and bones is diseased, and is no longer renewed
from the muscles and sinews, and instead of being oily and smooth and
glutinous becomes rough and salt and dry, then the fleshy parts fall
away and leave the sinews bare and full of brine, and the flesh gets
back again into the circulation of the blood, and makes the previously
mentioned disorders still greater. There are other and worse diseases
which are prior to these; as when the bone through the density of
the flesh does not receive sufficient air, and becomes stagnant and
gangrened, and crumbling away passes into the food, and the food into
the flesh, and the flesh returns again into the blood. Worst of all and
most fatal is the disease of the marrow, by which the whole course
of the body is reversed. There is a third class of diseases which are
produced, some by wind and some by phlegm and some by bile. When the
lung, which is the steward of the air, is obstructed, by rheums, and
in one part no air, and in another too much, enters in, then the parts
which are unrefreshed by air corrode, and other parts are distorted by
the excess of air; and in this manner painful diseases are produced. The
most painful are caused by wind generated within the body, which gets
about the great sinews of the shoulders--these are termed tetanus. The
cure of them is difficult, and in most cases they are relieved only by
fever. White phlegm, which is dangerous if kept in, by reason of the air
bubbles, is not equally dangerous if able to escape through the pores,
although it variegates the body, generating diverse kinds of leprosies.
If, when mingled with black bile, it disturbs the courses of the head
in sleep, there is not so much danger; but if it assails those who are
awake, then the attack is far more dangerous, and is called epilepsy or
the sacred disease. Acid and salt phlegm is the source of catarrh.
