March afarre off.
Ha? A Drumme? Th'art quicke,
But yet Ile bury thee: Thou't go (strong Theefe)
When Gowty keepers of thee cannot stand:
Nay stay thou out for earnest.
Enter Alcibiades with Drumme and Fife in warlike manner, and
Phrynia and
Timandra.
  Alc. What art thou there? speake
   Tim. A Beast as thou art. The Canker gnaw thy hart
For shewing me againe the eyes of Man
   Alc. What is thy name? Is man so hatefull to thee,
That art thy selfe a Man?
  Tim. I am Misantropos, and hate Mankinde.
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dogge,
That I might loue thee something
   Alc. I know thee well:
But in thy Fortunes am vnlearn'd, and strange
   Tim. I know thee too, and more then that I know thee
I not desire to know. Follow thy Drumme,
With mans blood paint the ground Gules, Gules:
Religious Cannons, ciuill Lawes are cruell,
Then what should warre be? This fell whore of thine,
Hath in her more destruction then thy Sword,
For all her Cherubin looke
   Phrin. Thy lips rot off
   Tim. I will not kisse thee, then the rot returnes
To thine owne lippes againe
   Alc. How came the Noble Timon to this change?
  Tim. As the Moone do's, by wanting light to giue:
But then renew I could not like the Moone,
There were no Sunnes to borrow of
   Alc. Noble Timon, what friendship may I do thee?
  Tim. None, but to maintaine my opinion
   Alc. What is it Timon?
  Tim. Promise me Friendship, but performe none.
If thou wilt not promise, the Gods plague thee, for thou
art a man: if thou do'st performe, confound thee, for
thou art a man
   Alc. I haue heard in some sort of thy Miseries
   Tim. Thou saw'st them when I had prosperitie
   Alc. I see them now, then was a blessed time
   Tim. As thine is now, held with a brace of Harlots
   Timan. Is this th' Athenian Minion, whom the world
Voic'd so regardfully?
  Tim. Art thou Timandra?
  Timan. Yes
   Tim. Be a whore still, they loue thee not that vse thee,
giue them diseases, leauing with thee their Lust. Make
vse of thy salt houres, season the slaues for Tubbes and
Bathes, bring downe Rose-cheekt youth to the Fubfast,
and the Diet
   Timan. Hang thee Monster
   Alc. Pardon him sweet Timandra, for his wits
Are drown'd and lost in his Calamities.
I haue but little Gold of late, braue Timon,
The want whereof, doth dayly make reuolt
In my penurious Band. I haue heard and greeu'd
How cursed Athens, mindelesse of thy worth,
Forgetting thy great deeds, when Neighbour states
But for thy Sword and Fortune trod vpon them
   Tim. I prythee beate thy Drum, and get thee gone
   Alc. I am thy Friend, and pitty thee deere Timon
   Tim. How doest thou pitty him whom y dost troble,
I had rather be alone
   Alc. Why fare thee well:
Heere is some Gold for thee
   Tim. Keepe it, I cannot eate it
