   1 Lord. I am so farre already in your guifts
   All. So are we all.
Enter a Seruant.
  Ser. My Lord, there are certaine Nobles of the Senate
newly alighted, and come to visit you
   Tim. They are fairely welcome.
Enter Flauius.
  Fla. I beseech your Honor, vouchsafe me a word, it
does concerne you neere
   Tim. Neere? why then another time Ile heare thee.
I prythee let's be prouided to shew them entertainment
   Fla. I scarse know how.
Enter another Seruant.
  Ser. May it please your Honor, Lord Lucius
(Out of his free loue) hath presented to you
Foure Milke-white Horses, trapt in Siluer
   Tim. I shall accept them fairely: let the Presents
Be worthily entertain'd.
Enter a third Seruant.
How now? What newes?
  3.Ser. Please you my Lord, that honourable Gentleman
Lord Lucullus, entreats your companie to morrow,
to hunt with him, and ha's sent your Honour two brace
of Grey-hounds
   Tim. Ile hunt with him,
And let them be receiu'd, not without faire Reward
   Fla. What will this come to?
He commands vs to prouide, and giue great guifts, and
all out of an empty Coffer:
Nor will he know his Purse, or yeeld me this,
To shew him what a Begger his heart is,
Being of no power to make his wishes good.
His promises flye so beyond his state,
That what he speaks is all in debt, he ows for eu'ry word:
He is so kinde, that he now payes interest for't;
His Land's put to their Bookes. Well, would I were
Gently put out of Office, before I were forc'd out:
Happier is he that has no friend to feede,
Then such that do e'ne Enemies exceede.
I bleed inwardly for my Lord.
Exit
  Tim. You do your selues much wrong,
You bate too much of your owne merits.
Heere my Lord, a trifle of our Loue
   2.Lord. With more then common thankes
I will receyue it
   3.Lord. O he's the very soule of Bounty
   Tim. And now I remember my Lord, you gaue good
words the other day of a Bay Courser I rod on. Tis yours
because you lik'd it
   1.L. Oh, I beseech you pardon mee, my Lord, in that
   Tim. You may take my word my Lord: I know no
man can iustly praise, but what he does affect. I weighe
my Friends affection with mine owne: Ile tell you true,
Ile call to you
   All Lor. O none so welcome
   Tim. I take all, and your seuerall visitations
So kinde to heart, 'tis not enough to giue:
Me thinkes, I could deale Kingdomes to my Friends,
And nere be wearie. Alcibiades,
Thou art a Soldiour, therefore sildome rich,
It comes in Charitie to thee: for all thy liuing
Is mong'st the dead: and all the Lands thou hast
Lye in a pitcht field
   Alc. I, defil'd Land, my Lord
   1.Lord. We are so vertuously bound
   Tim. And so am I to you
   2.Lord. So infinitely endeer'd
   Tim. All to you. Lights, more Lights
