Tom didn't feel no more intrust in him neither, only curiosity to know
what come of him; but he said we'd lay low and keep dark and it wouldn't
be long till the dogs or somebody rousted him out.
We went back home to breakfast ever so bothered and put out and
disappointed and swindled. I warn't ever so down on a corpse before.
CHAPTER VIII. TALKING WITH THE GHOST
IT warn't very cheerful at breakfast. Aunt Sally she looked old and
tired and let the children snarl and fuss at one another and didn't seem
to notice it was going on, which wasn't her usual style; me and Tom
had a plenty to think about without talking; Benny she looked like she
hadn't had much sleep, and whenever she'd lift her head a little and
steal a look towards her father you could see there was tears in her
eyes; and as for the old man, his things stayed on his plate and got
cold without him knowing they was there, I reckon, for he was thinking
and thinking all the time, and never said a word and never et a bite.
By and by when it was stillest, that nigger's head was poked in at the
door again, and he said his Marse Brace was getting powerful uneasy
about Marse Jubiter, which hadn't come home yet, and would Marse Silas
please--He was looking at Uncle Silas, and he stopped there, like the
rest of his words was froze; for Uncle Silas he rose up shaky and
steadied himself leaning his fingers on the table, and he was panting,
and his eyes was set on the nigger, and he kept swallowing, and put his
other hand up to his throat a couple of times, and at last he got his
words started, and says:
"Does he--does he--think--WHAT does he think! Tell him--tell him--" Then he
sunk down in his chair limp and weak, and says, so as you could hardly
hear him: "Go away--go away!"
The nigger looked scared and cleared out, and we all felt--well, I don't
know how we felt, but it was awful, with the old man panting there, and
his eyes set and looking like a person that was dying. None of us could
budge; but Benny she slid around soft, with her tears running down,
and stood by his side, and nestled his old gray head up against her and
begun to stroke it and pet it with her hands, and nodded to us to go
away, and we done it, going out very quiet, like the dead was there.
Me and Tom struck out for the woods mighty solemn, and saying how
different it was now to what it was last summer when we was here and
everything was so peaceful and happy and everybody thought so much of
Uncle Silas, and he was so cheerful and simple-hearted and pudd'n-headed
and good--and now look at him. If he hadn't lost his mind he wasn't much
short of it. That was what we allowed.
