"Just then I see a man coming down on a mule, and before I thought I
jumped into the bush. It was stupid! When he got abreast he stopped and
waited a little for me to come out; then he rode on again. But I didn't
feel gay any more. I says to myself I've botched my chances by that; I
surely have, if he meets up with Hal Clayton.
"Well, about three in the morning I fetched Elexandria and see this
stern-wheeler laying there, and was very glad, because I felt perfectly
safe, now, you know. It was just daybreak. I went aboard and got this
stateroom and put on these clothes and went up in the pilot-house--to
watch, though I didn't reckon there was any need of it. I set there and
played with my di'monds and waited and waited for the boat to start, but
she didn't. You see, they was mending her machinery, but I didn't know
anything about it, not being very much used to steamboats.
"Well, to cut the tale short, we never left there till plumb noon; and
long before that I was hid in this stateroom; for before breakfast I see
a man coming, away off, that had a gait like Hal Clayton's, and it made
me just sick. I says to myself, if he finds out I'm aboard this boat,
he's got me like a rat in a trap. All he's got to do is to have me
watched, and wait--wait till I slip ashore, thinking he is a thousand
miles away, then slip after me and dog me to a good place and make me
give up the di'monds, and then he'll--oh, I know what he'll do! Ain't it
awful--awful! And now to think the OTHER one's aboard, too! Oh, ain't it
hard luck, boys--ain't it hard! But you'll help save me, WON'T you?--oh,
boys, be good to a poor devil that's being hunted to death, and save
me--I'll worship the very ground you walk on!"
We turned in and soothed him down and told him we would plan for him
and help him, and he needn't be so afeard; and so by and by he got to
feeling kind of comfortable again, and unscrewed his heelplates and held
up his di'monds this way and that, admiring them and loving them; and
when the light struck into them they WAS beautiful, sure; why, they
seemed to kind of bust, and snap fire out all around. But all the same I
judged he was a fool. If I had been him I would a handed the di'monds to
them pals and got them to go ashore and leave me alone. But he was made
different. He said it was a whole fortune and he couldn't bear the idea.
Twice we stopped to fix the machinery and laid a good while, once in
the night; but it wasn't dark enough, and he was afeard to skip. But the
third time we had to fix it there was a better chance. We laid up at
a country woodyard about forty mile above Uncle Silas's place a little
after one at night, and it was thickening up and going to storm. So Jake
he laid for a chance to slide. We begun to take in wood. Pretty soon the
rain come a-drenching down, and the wind blowed hard. Of course every
boat-hand fixed a gunny sack and put it on like a bonnet, the way they
do when they are toting wood, and we got one for Jake, and he slipped
down aft with his hand-bag and come tramping forrard just like the rest,
and walked ashore with them, and when we see him pass out of the light
of the torch-basket and get swallowed up in the dark, we got our breath
again and just felt grateful and splendid. But it wasn't for long.
Somebody told, I reckon; for in about eight or ten minutes them two pals
come tearing forrard as tight as they could jump and darted ashore and
was gone. We waited plumb till dawn for them to come back, and
kept hoping they would, but they never did. We was awful sorry and
low-spirited. All the hope we had was that Jake had got such a start
that they couldn't get on his track, and he would get to his brother's
and hide there and be safe.
