It was good to be there again behind all that noble corn-pone and
spareribs, and everything that you could ever want in this world. Old
Uncle Silas he peeled off one of his bulliest old-time blessings, with
as many layers to it as an onion, and whilst the angels was hauling in
the slack of it I was trying to study up what to say about what kept
us so long. When our plates was all loadened and we'd got a-going, she
asked me, and I says:
"Well, you see,--er--Mizzes--"
"Huck Finn! Since when am I Mizzes to you? Have I ever been stingy of
cuffs or kisses for you since the day you stood in this room and I took
you for Tom Sawyer and blessed God for sending you to me, though you
told me four thousand lies and I believed every one of them like a
simpleton? Call me Aunt Sally--like you always done."
So I done it. And I says:
"Well, me and Tom allowed we would come along afoot and take a smell of
the woods, and we run across Lem Beebe and Jim Lane, and they asked
us to go with them blackberrying to-night, and said they could borrow
Jubiter Dunlap's dog, because he had told them just that minute--"
"Where did they see him?" says the old man; and when I looked up to see
how HE come to take an intrust in a little thing like that, his eyes was
just burning into me, he was that eager. It surprised me so it kind of
throwed me off, but I pulled myself together again and says:
"It was when he was spading up some ground along with you, towards
sundown or along there."
He only said, "Um," in a kind of a disappointed way, and didn't take no
more intrust. So I went on. I says:
"Well, then, as I was a-saying--"
"That'll do, you needn't go no furder." It was Aunt Sally. She was
boring right into me with her eyes, and very indignant. "Huck Finn,"
she says, "how'd them men come to talk about going a-black-berrying in
September--in THIS region?"
I see I had slipped up, and I couldn't say a word. She waited, still
a-gazing at me, then she says:
"And how'd they come to strike that idiot idea of going a-blackberrying
in the night?"
"Well, m'm, they--er--they told us they had a lantern, and--"
"Oh, SHET up--do! Looky here; what was they going to do with a dog?--hunt
blackberries with it?"
"I think, m'm, they--"
"Now, Tom Sawyer, what kind of a lie are you fixing YOUR mouth to
contribit to this mess of rubbage? Speak out--and I warn you before you
begin, that I don't believe a word of it. You and Huck's been up to
something you no business to--I know it perfectly well; I know you,
BOTH of you. Now you explain that dog, and them blackberries, and the
lantern, and the rest of that rot--and mind you talk as straight as a
string--do you hear?"
