   Vio. I saw thee late at the Count Orsino's
   Clo. Foolery sir, does walke about the Orbe like the
Sun, it shines euery where. I would be sorry sir, but the
Foole should be as oft with your Master, as with my Mistris:
I thinke I saw your wisedome there
   Vio. Nay, and thou passe vpon me, Ile no more with
thee. Hold there's expences for thee
   Clo. Now Ioue in his next commodity of hayre, send
thee a beard
   Vio. By my troth Ile tell thee, I am almost sicke for
one, though I would not haue it grow on my chinne. Is
thy Lady within?
  Clo Would not a paire of these haue bred sir?
  Vio. Yes being kept together, and put to vse
   Clo. I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia sir, to bring
a Cressida to this Troylus
   Vio. I vnderstand you sir, tis well begg'd
   Clo. The matter I hope is not great sir; begging, but a
begger: Cressida was a begger. My Lady is within sir. I
will conster to them whence you come, who you are, and
what you would are out of my welkin, I might say Element,
but the word is ouer-worne.
Exit
  Vio. This fellow is wise enough to play the foole,
And to do that well, craues a kinde of wit:
He must obserue their mood on whom he iests,
The quality of persons, and the time:
And like the Haggard, checke at euery Feather
That comes before his eye. This is a practice,
As full of labour as a Wise-mans Art:
For folly that he wisely shewes, is fit;
But wisemens folly falne, quite taint their wit.
Enter Sir Toby and Andrew.
  To. Saue you Gentleman
   Vio. And you sir
   And. Dieu vou guard Monsieur
   Vio. Et vouz ousie vostre seruiture
   An. I hope sir, you are, and I am yours
   To. Will you incounter the house, my Neece is desirous
you should enter, if your trade be to her
   Vio. I am bound to your Neece sir, I meane she is the
list of my voyage
   To. Taste your legges sir, put them to motion
   Vio. My legges do better vnderstand me sir, then I vnderstand
what you meane by bidding me taste my legs
   To. I meane to go sir, to enter
   Vio. I will answer you with gate and entrance, but we
are preuented.
Enter Oliuia, and Gentlewoman.
Most excellent accomplish'd Lady, the heauens raine Odours
on you
   And. That youth's a rare Courtier, raine odours, wel
   Vio. My matter hath no voice Lady, but to your owne
most pregnant and vouchsafed eare
   And. Odours, pregnant, and vouchsafed: Ile get 'em
all three already
   Ol. Let the Garden doore be shut, and leaue mee to
my hearing. Giue me your hand sir
   Vio. My dutie Madam, and most humble seruice
   Ol. What is your name?
  Vio. Cesario is your seruants name, faire Princesse
   Ol. My seruant sir? 'Twas neuer merry world,
Since lowly feigning was call'd complement:
Y'are seruant to the Count Orsino youth
