   To. Doo't knight, Ile write thee a Challenge: or Ile
deliuer thy indignation to him by word of mouth
   Mar. Sweet Sir Toby be patient for to night: Since
the youth of the Counts was to day with my Lady, she is
much out of quiet. For Monsieur Maluolio, let me alone
with him: If I do not gull him into a nayword, and make
him a common recreation, do not thinke I haue witte enough
to lye straight in my bed: I know I can do it
   To. Possesse vs, possesse vs, tell vs something of him
   Mar. Marrie sir, sometimes he is a kinde of Puritane
   An. O, if I thought that, Ide beate him like a dogge
   To. What for being a Puritan, thy exquisite reason,
deere knight
   An. I haue no exquisite reason for't, but I haue reason
good enough
   Mar. The diu'll a Puritane that hee is, or any thing
constantly but a time-pleaser, an affection'd Asse, that
cons State without booke, and vtters it by great swarths.
The best perswaded of himselfe: so cram'd (as he thinkes)
with excellencies, that it is his grounds of faith, that all
that looke on him, loue him: and on that vice in him, will
my reuenge finde notable cause to worke
   To. What wilt thou do?
  Mar. I will drop in his way some obscure Epistles of
loue, wherein by the colour of his beard, the shape of his
legge, the manner of his gate, the expressure of his eye,
forehead, and complection, he shall finde himselfe most
feelingly personated. I can write very like my Ladie
your Neece, on a forgotten matter wee can hardly make
distinction of our hands
   To. Excellent, I smell a deuice
   An. I hau't in my nose too
   To. He shall thinke by the Letters that thou wilt drop
that they come from my Neece, and that shee's in loue
with him
   Mar. My purpose is indeed a horse of that colour
   An. And your horse now would make him an Asse
   Mar. Asse, I doubt not
   An. O twill be admirable
   Mar. Sport royall I warrant you: I know my Physicke
will worke with him, I will plant you two, and let
the Foole make a third, where he shall finde the Letter:
obserue his construction of it: For this night to bed, and
dreame on the euent: Farewell.
Exit
  To. Good night Penthisilea
   An. Before me she's a good wench
   To. She's a beagle true bred, and one that adores me:
what o'that?
  An. I was ador'd once too
   To. Let's to bed knight: Thou hadst neede send for
more money
   An. If I cannot recouer your Neece, I am a foule way
out
   To. Send for money knight, if thou hast her not i'th
end, call me Cut
   An. If I do not, neuer trust me, take it how you will
   To. Come, come, Ile go burne some Sacke, tis too late
to go to bed now: Come knight, come knight.
