There was one, a big grizzled Irishman, whom Ted had seen only a few
times. Nevertheless, he was one of his closest friends. They had met on
a night when the boy was hunting, and he could remember still how they
had lain together by the tiny camp fire, with the coyotes yelping in the
distance, with the great plain stretching out into the dark, with the
slender curl of smoke rising straight upward and the big stars seeming
almost within reach of his hand in the thin air. The lonely Irishman had
opened his heart to his new friend and had told him much of his own
country, so unlike this big bare one, a dear green land where the
tumbledown cottages and little fields were crowded together in such
comforting comradeship.
"You could open your window of a summer night and give a call to the
neighbors," he sighed, "and you needn't to have the voice of the giant
Finn McCoul to make them hear. In this place a man could fall sick and
die alone and no one be the wiser."
His reminiscences had wandered farther and farther until he began to
tell the tales and legends familiar in his own countryside, stories of
the "Little People" and of Ireland in ancient times. Of them all Ted
remembered most clearly the story of the white grayhounds of the King of
Connemara, upon which his friend had dwelt long, showing that in spite
of its being a thousand years old, it was his favorite tale.
"Like those dogs on Arran Creek, they were perhaps," the Irishman said,
"only sleeker of coat and swifter of foot, I'm thinking."
"But they couldn't be faster," Ted had objected. "The Arran dogs can
catch coyotes and jack-rabbits and people have called those the quickest
animals that run."
"Ah," returned the other with true Irish logic, "those Arran dogs are
Russian, they tell me, and these I speak of were of Connemara, and what
comes out of Ireland, you may be sure, is faster and fairer than
anything else on earth."
Against such reasoning Ted had judged it impossible to argue and had
dropped into silence and finally into sleep with the voices of the
coyotes and the legend of the lean, white Irish grayhounds still running
like swift water through his dreams.
After that he had visited the lonely shepherd whenever he could find
time to travel so far. Together they had hunted deer and trapped beaver
in the foothills above the Big Basin or, when the sheep had to be moved
to new pasture, had spent hours in earnest talk, plodding patiently in
the dust after the slow-moving flock. The long habit of silence had
taken deep hold upon the Irishman, but with Ted alone he seemed willing
to speak freely. It was on one of these occasions that he had given the
boy the image of Saint Christopher, "For," he said, "you are like to be
a great roamer and a great traveler from the way you talk, and those who
carry the good Saint Christopher with them, always travel safely."
