Of course the winds were very jealous when they heard of it, and they
determined to get revenge by stealing the messages from the spirits.
They dashed against the wires day after day, trying to break them and
get the secrets, but all to no purpose. All they could hear was
MUM-MUM-MUM-M-M; and the harder they blew, the louder they heard it.
The birds had all along been sorry that they had given away the great
secret, and had been hoping that the King would give them another
chance. They were much too gentle to do as the winds did. But they were
very curious to find out what the King's messages were. So day after day
they went to the wires and sat upon them and snuggled down as close to
them as they could get and listened hard, putting now the right ear down
and now the left--but all they could ever hear was MUM-MUM-MUM-M-M-M-M.
_And they seem never to have got over that habit!_ If you want to find
out for yourself the truth of this tale, _you go_ some day when the wind
is blowing against the wires and the birds are sitting upon them,
snuggled close, and put your ear to a telegraph pole and all _you_ will
hear is MUM-MUM-MUM-M-M-M.
[Illustration: CATHKA AND THE DEVIL]
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 4: By permission of the publishers from _The City That Never
Was Reached,_ by Dr. Jay T. Stocking. Copyright by _The Pilgrim Press_.]
KATCHA AND THE DEVIL[5]
THE STORY OF A CLINGING VINE
THERE was once a woman named Katcha who lived in a village where she
owned her own cottage and garden. She had money besides but little good
it did her because she was such an ill-tempered vixen that nobody, not
even the poorest laborer, would marry her. Nobody would even work for
her, no matter what she paid, for she couldn't open her mouth without
scolding, and whenever she scolded she raised her shrill voice until you
could hear it a mile away. The older she grew the worse she became until
by the time she was forty she was as sour as vinegar.
Now as it always happens in a village, every Sunday afternoon there was
a dance either at the burgomaster's, or at the tavern. As soon as the
bagpipes sounded, the boys all crowded into the room and the girls
gathered outside and looked in the windows. Katcha was always the first
at the window. The music would strike up and the boys would beckon the
girls to come in and dance, but no one ever beckoned Katcha. Even when
she paid the piper no one ever asked her to dance. Yet she came Sunday
after Sunday just the same.
One Sunday afternoon as she was hurrying to the tavern she thought to
herself: "Here I am getting old and yet I've never once danced with a
boy! Plague take it, to-day I'd dance with the devil if he asked me!"
