With these words the devil vanished.
For a moment the shepherd was dazed. Then he laughed and said to
himself: "Well, if they're all as stupid as he is, we ought to be able
for them!"
The country where the shepherd lived was ruled over by a dissolute young
duke who passed his days in riotous living and his nights in carousing.
He gave over the affairs of state to two governors who were as bad as
he. With extortionate taxes and unjust fines they robbed the people
until the whole land was crying out against them.
Now one day for amusement the duke summoned an astrologer to court and
ordered him to read in the planets the fate of himself and his two
governors. When the astrologer had cast a horoscope for each of the
three reprobates, he was greatly disturbed and tried to dissuade the
duke from questioning him further.
"Such danger," he said, "threatens your life and the lives of your two
governors that I fear to speak."
"Whatever it is," said the duke, "speak. But I warn you to speak the
truth, for if what you say does not come to pass you will forfeit your
life."
The astrologer bowed and said: "Hear then, O Duke, what the planets
foretell: Before the second quarter of the moon, on such and such a day,
at such and such an hour, a devil will come and carry off the two
governors. At the full of the moon on such and such a day, at such and
such an hour, the same devil will come for your Highness and carry you
off to hell."
The duke pretended to be unconcerned but in his heart he was deeply
shaken. The voice of the astrologer sounded to him like the voice of
judgment and for the first time conscience began to trouble him.
As for the governors, they couldn't eat a bite of food and were carried
from the palace half dead with fright. They piled their ill-gotten
wealth into wagons and rode away to their castles, where they barred all
the doors and windows in order to keep the devil out.
The duke reformed. He gave up his evil ways and corrected the abuses of
state in the hope of averting if possible his cruel fate.
The poor shepherd had no inkling of any of these things. He tended his
flocks from day to day and never bothered his head about the happenings
in the great world.
Suddenly one day the devil appeared before him and said: "I have come,
my friend, to repay you for your kindness. When the moon is in its first
quarter, I was to carry off the former governors of this land because
they robbed the poor and gave the duke evil counsel. However, they're
behaving themselves now so they're to be given another chance. But they
don't know this. Now on such and such a day do you go to the first
castle where a crowd of people will be assembled. When a cry goes up and
the gates open and I come dragging out the governor, do you step up to
me and say: 'What do you mean by this? Get out of here or there'll be
trouble!' I'll pretend to be greatly frightened and make off. Then ask
the governor to pay you two bags of gold, and if he haggles just
threaten to call me back. After that go on to the castle of the second
governor and do the same thing and demand the same pay. I warn you,
though, be prudent with the money and use it only for good. When the
moon is full, I'm to carry off the duke himself, for he was so wicked
that he's to have no second chance. So don't try to save him, for if you
do you'll pay for it with your own skin. Don't forget!"
