"On the theory that art is higher than nature, I suppose uncle?"
"Yes, yes! Just so--and I assure you, when we cut off his beard he suffered
as much as though we were depriving him of all he held most dear! But we
must be go--going, my boy!"
"But I hope, dear prince, that you will only call upon the governor!"
cried Maria Alexandrovna, in great agitation. "You are _mine_ now, Prince;
you belong to _my_ family for the whole of this day! Of course I will say
nothing about the society of this place. Perhaps you are thinking of
paying Anna Nicolaevna a visit? I will not say a word to dissuade you; but
at the same time I am quite convinced that--time will show! Remember one
thing, dear Prince, that I am your sister, your nurse, your guardian for
to-day at least, and oh!--I tremble for you. You don't know these people,
Prince, as I do! You don't know them fully: but time will teach you all
you do not know."
"Trust me, Maria Alexandrovna!" said Paul, "it shall all be exactly as I
have promised you!"
"Oh--but you're such a weathercock! I can never trust _you_! I shall wait
for you at dinner time, Prince; we dine early. How sorry I am that my
husband happens to be in the country on such an occasion! How happy he
would have been to see you! He esteems you so highly, Prince; he is so
sincerely attached to you!"
"Your husband? dear me! So you have a h--husband, too!" observed the old
man.
"Oh, prince, prince! how forgetful you are! Why, you have _quite_, quite
forgotten the past! My husband, Afanassy Matveyevitch, surely you must
remember him? He is in the country: but you have seen him thousands of
times before! Don't you remember--Afanassy Matveyevitch!"
"Afanassy Matveyevitch. Dear me!--and in the co--country! how very charming!
So you have a husband! dear me, I remember a vaudeville very like that,
something about--
                           "The husband's here,
                         And his wife at Tvere."
Charming, charming--such a good rhyme too; and it's a most ri--diculous
story! Charming, charming; the wife's away, you know, at Jaroslaf or Tv----
or somewhere, and the husband is----is----Dear me! I'm afraid I've forgotten
what we were talking about! Yes, yes--we must be going, my boy! _Au revoir,
madame; adieu, ma charmante demoiselle_" he added, turning to Zina, and
putting the ends of her fingers to his lips.
"Come back to dinner,--to dinner, prince! don't forget to come back here
quick!" cried Maria Alexandrovna after them as they went out; "be back to
dinner!"
CHAPTER V.
"Nastasia Petrovna, I think you had better go and see what is doing in the
kitchen!" observed Maria Alexandrovna, as she returned from seeing the
prince off. "I'm sure that rascal Nikitka will spoil the dinner! Probably
he's drunk already!" The widow obeyed.
As the latter left the room, she glanced suspiciously at Maria
Alexandrovna, and observed that the latter was in a high state of
agitation. Therefore, instead of going to look after Nikitka, she went
through the "Salon," along the passage to her own room, and through that
to a dark box-room, where the old clothes of the establishment and such
things were stored. There she approached the locked door on tiptoe; and
stifling her breath, she bent to the keyhole, through which she peeped,
and settled herself to listen intently. This door, which was always kept
shut, was one of the three doors communicating with the room where Maria
Alexandrovna and Zina were now left alone. Maria Alexandrovna always
considered Nastasia an untrustworthy sort of woman, although extremely
silly into the bargain. Of course she had suspected the widow--more than
once--of eavesdropping; but it so happened that at the moment Madame
Moskaleva was too agitated and excited to think of the usual precautions.
