"Recollect what I have said, and draw whatever you please from the words;
that's your business. I shall add nothing. I do not refuse you; I merely
say--wait! And I repeat, I reserve the free right of rejecting you
afterwards if I choose so to do. Just one more word: if you come here
before the fixed time relying on outside protection, or even on my
mother's influence to help you gain your end, let me tell you, you make a
great mistake; if you worry me now, I shall refuse you outright. I hope we
understand each other now, and that I shall hear no more of this, until
the period I named to you for my decision." All this was said quietly and
drily, and without a pause, as if learnt by rote. Paul felt foolish; but
just at this moment Maria Alexandrovna entered the room, and the widow
after her.
"I think he's just coming, Zina! Nastasia Petrovna, make some new tea
quick, please!" The good lady was considerably agitated.
"Mrs. Antipova has sent her maid over to inquire about the prince already.
How angry she must be feeling just now," remarked the widow, as she
commenced to pass over the tea-urn.
"And what's that to me!" replied Maria Alexandrovna, over her shoulder.
"Just as though _I_ care what she thinks! _I_ shall not send a maid to her
kitchen to inquire, I assure you! And I am surprised, downright
_surprised_, that, not only you, but all the town, too, should suppose
that that wretched woman is my enemy! I appeal to you, Paul--you know us
both. Why should I be her enemy, now? Is it a question of precedence?
Pooh! I don't care about precedence! She may be first, if she likes, and I
shall be readiest of all to go and congratulate her on the fact. Besides,
it's all nonsense! Why, I take her part; I _must_ take her part. People
malign her; _why_ do you all fall upon her so? Because she's young, and
likes to be smart; is that it? Dear me, I think finery is a good bit
better than some other failings--like Natalia Dimitrievna's, for instance,
who has a taste for things that cannot be mentioned in polite society. Or
is it that Mrs. Antipova goes out too much, and never stays at home? My
goodness! why, the woman has never had any education; naturally she
doesn't care to sit down to read, or anything of that sort. True, she
coquets and makes eyes at everybody who looks at her. But why do people
tell her that she's pretty? especially as she only has a pale face, and
nothing else to boast of.
"She is amusing at a dance, I admit; but why do people tell her that she
dances the polka so well? She wears hideous hats and things; but it's not
her fault that nature gave her no gift of good taste. She talks scandal;
but that's the custom of the place--who doesn't here? That fellow,
Sushikoff, with his whiskers, goes to see her pretty often while her
husband plays cards, but that _may_ be merely a trumped-up tale; at all
events I always say so, and take her part in every way! But, good heavens!
here's the prince at last! 'Tis he, 'tis he! I recognise him! I should
know him out of a thousand! At last I see you! At last, my Prince!" cried
Maria Alexandrovna,--and she rushed to greet the prince as he entered the
room.
