But the last and most significant need for the surplus labor army remains
to be stated.  This surplus labor acts as a check upon all employed
labor.  It is the lash by which the masters hold the workers to their
tasks, or drive them back to their tasks when they have revolted.  It is
the goad which forces the workers into the compulsory "free contracts"
against which they now and again rebel.  There is only one reason under
the sun that strikes fail, and that is because there are always plenty of
men to take the strikers' places.
The strength of the union today, other things remaining equal, is
proportionate to the skill of the trade, or, in other words,
proportionate to the pressure the surplus labor army can put upon it.  If
a thousand ditch-diggers strike, it is easy to replace them, wherefore
the ditch-diggers have little or no organized strength.  But a thousand
highly skilled machinists are somewhat harder to replace, and in
consequence the machinist unions are strong.  The ditch-diggers are
wholly at the mercy of the surplus labor army, the machinists only
partly.  To be invincible, a union must be a monopoly.  It must control
every man in its particular trade, and regulate apprentices so that the
supply of skilled workmen may remain constant; this is the dream of the
"Labor Trust" on the part of the captains of labor.
Once, in England, after the Great Plague, labor awoke to find there was
more work for men than there were men to work.  Instead of workers
competing for favors from employers, employers were competing for favors
from the workers.  Wages went up and up, and continued to go up, until
the workers demanded the full product of their toil.  Now it is clear
that, when labor receives its full product capital must perish.  And so
the pygmy capitalists of that post-Plague day found their existence
threatened by this untoward condition of affairs.  To save themselves,
they set a maximum wage, restrained the workers from moving about from
place to place, smashed incipient organization, refused to tolerate
idlers, and by most barbarous legal penalties punished those who
disobeyed.  After that, things went on as before.
The point of this, of course, is to demonstrate the need of the surplus
labor army.  Without such an army, our present capitalist society would
be powerless.  Labor would organize as it never organized before, and the
last least worker would be gathered into the unions.  The full product of
toil would be demanded, and capitalist society would crumble away.  Nor
could capitalist society save itself as did the post-Plague capitalist
society.  The time is past when a handful of masters, by imprisonment and
barbarous punishment, can drive the legions of the workers to their
tasks.  Without a surplus labor army, the courts, police, and military
are impotent.  In such matters the function of the courts, police, and
military is to preserve order, and to fill the places of strikers with
surplus labor.  If there be no surplus labor to instate, there is no
function to perform; for disorder arises only during the process of
instatement, when the striking labor army and the surplus labor army
clash together.  That is to say, that which maintains the integrity of
the present industrial society more potently than the courts, police, and
military is the surplus labor army.
