For divers reasons, the capitalist class lacks this cohesion or
solidarity, chief among which is the optimism bred of past success.  And,
again, the capitalist class is divided; it has within itself a class
struggle of no mean proportions, which tends to irritate and harass it
and to confuse the situation.  The small capitalist and the large
capitalist are grappled with each other, struggling over what Achille
Loria calls the "bi-partition of the revenues."  Such a struggle, though
not precisely analogous, was waged between the landlords and
manufacturers of England when the one brought about the passage of the
Factory Acts and the other the abolition of the Corn Laws.
Here and there, however, certain members of the capitalist class see
clearly the cleavage in society along which the struggle is beginning to
show itself, while the press and magazines are beginning to raise an
occasional and troubled voice.  Two leagues of class-conscious
capitalists have been formed for the purpose of carrying on their side of
the struggle.  Like the socialists, they do not mince matters, but state
boldly and plainly that they are fighting to subjugate the opposing
class.  It is the barons against the commons.  One of these leagues, the
National Association of Manufacturers, is stopping short of nothing in
what it conceives to be a life-and-death struggle.  Mr. D. M. Parry, who
is the president of the league, as well as president of the National
Metal Trades' Association, is leaving no stone unturned in what he feels
to be a desperate effort to organize his class.  He has issued the call
to arms in terms everything but ambiguous: "_There is still time in the
United States to head off the socialistic programme_, _which_,
_unrestrained_, _is sure to wreck our country_."
As he says, the work is for "federating employers in order that we may
meet with a united front all issues that affect us.  We must come to this
sooner or later. . . . The work immediately before the National
Association of Manufacturers is, first, _keep the vicious eight-hour Bill
off the books_; second, to _destroy the Anti-injunction Bill_, which
wrests your business from you and places it in the hands of your
employees; third, to secure the _passage of the Department of Commerce
and Industry Bill_; the latter would go through with a rush were it not
for the hectoring opposition of Organized Labor."  By this department, he
further says, "business interests would have direct and sympathetic
representation at Washington."
In a later letter, issued broadcast to the capitalists outside the
League, President Parry points out the success which is already beginning
to attend the efforts of the League at Washington.  "We have contributed
more than any other influence to the quick passage of the new Department
of Commerce Bill.  It is said that the activities of this office are
numerous and satisfactory; but of that I must not say too much--or
anything. . . . At Washington the Association is not represented too
much, either directly or indirectly.  Sometimes it is known in a most
powerful way that it is represented vigorously and unitedly.  Sometimes
it is not known that it is represented at all."
