"_I believed, and was happy in it; you have taken my belief away, and
my comfort. Now I have nothing left, and I die miserable; for the
things which you have told me do not take the place of that which I have
lost_."
And the mother, also, reproached the missionary, and said:
"_My child is forever lost, and my heart is broken. How could you do
this cruel thing? We had done you no harm, but only kindness; we made
our house your home, you were welcome to all we had, and this is our
reward_."
The heart of the missionary was filled with remorse for what he had
done, and he said:
"_It was wrong--I see it now; but I was only trying to do him good. In
my view he was in error; it seemed my duty to teach him the truth_."
Then the mother said:
"_I had taught him, all his little life, what I believed to be the
truth, and in his believing faith both of us were happy. Now he is
dead--and lost; and I am miserable. Our faith came down to us through
centuries of believing ancestors; what right had you, or any one, to
disturb it? Where was your honor, where was your shame_?"
The missionary's anguish of remorse and sense of treachery were as
bitter and persecuting and unappeasable, now, as they had been in the
former case. The story is finished. What is your comment?
Y.M. The man's conscience is a fool! It was morbid. It didn't know right
from wrong.
O.M. I am not sorry to hear you say that. If you grant that _one_ man's
conscience doesn't know right from wrong, it is an admission that there
are others like it. This single admission pulls down the whole doctrine
of infallibility of judgment in consciences. Meantime there is one thing
which I ask you to notice.
Y.M. What is that?
O.M. That in both cases the man's _act_ gave him no spiritual
discomfort, and that he was quite satisfied with it and got pleasure out
of it. But afterward when it resulted in _pain_ to _him_, he was sorry.
Sorry it had inflicted pain upon the others, _but for no reason under
the sun except that their pain gave him pain_. Our consciences take _no_
notice of pain inflicted upon others until it reaches a point where it
gives pain to _us_. In _all_ cases without exception we are absolutely
indifferent to another person's pain until his sufferings make us
uncomfortable. Many an infidel would not have been troubled by that
Christian mother's distress. Don't you believe that?
Y.M. Yes. You might almost say it of the _average_ infidel, I think.
O.M. And many a missionary, sternly fortified by his sense of duty,
would not have been troubled by the pagan mother's distress--Jesuit
missionaries in Canada in the early French times, for instance; see
episodes quoted by Parkman.
Y.M. Well, let us adjourn. Where have we arrived?
O.M. At this. That we (mankind) have ticketed ourselves with a number of
qualities to which we have given misleading names. Love, Hate, Charity,
Compassion, Avarice, Benevolence, and so on. I mean we attach misleading
_meanings_ to the names. They are all forms of self-contentment,
self-gratification, but the names so disguise them that they distract
our attention from the fact. Also we have smuggled a word into the
dictionary which ought not to be there at all--Self-Sacrifice. It
describes a thing which does not exist. But worst of all, we ignore and
never mention the Sole Impulse which dictates and compels a man's every
act: the imperious necessity of securing his own approval, in every
emergency and at all costs. To it we owe all that we are. It is our
breath, our heart, our blood. It is our only spur, our whip, our goad,
our only impelling power; we have no other. Without it we should be
mere inert images, corpses; no one would do anything, there would be
no progress, the world would stand still. We ought to stand reverently
uncovered when the name of that stupendous power is uttered.
