The man sat down on his blankets in a crouching position.  His body
leaned forward from the hips.  His shoulders, relaxed and drooping, and
his head on his knees advertised that he had given up the struggle.  Now
and again he raised his head to note the dying down of the fire.  The
circle of flame and coals was breaking into segments with openings in
between.  These openings grew in size, the segments diminished.
"I guess you can come an' get me any time," he mumbled.  "Anyway, I'm
goin' to sleep."
Once he awakened, and in an opening in the circle, directly in front of
him, he saw the she-wolf gazing at him.
Again he awakened, a little later, though it seemed hours to him.  A
mysterious change had taken place--so mysterious a change that he was
shocked wider awake.  Something had happened.  He could not understand at
first.  Then he discovered it.  The wolves were gone.  Remained only the
trampled snow to show how closely they had pressed him.  Sleep was
welling up and gripping him again, his head was sinking down upon his
knees, when he roused with a sudden start.
There were cries of men, and churn of sleds, the creaking of harnesses,
and the eager whimpering of straining dogs.  Four sleds pulled in from
the river bed to the camp among the trees.  Half a dozen men were about
the man who crouched in the centre of the dying fire.  They were shaking
and prodding him into consciousness.  He looked at them like a drunken
man and maundered in strange, sleepy speech.
"Red she-wolf. . . . Come in with the dogs at feedin' time. . . . First
she ate the dog-food. . . . Then she ate the dogs. . . . An' after that
she ate Bill. . . . "
"Where's Lord Alfred?" one of the men bellowed in his ear, shaking him
roughly.
He shook his head slowly.  "No, she didn't eat him. . . . He's roostin'
in a tree at the last camp."
"Dead?" the man shouted.
"An' in a box," Henry answered.  He jerked his shoulder petulantly away
from the grip of his questioner.  "Say, you lemme alone. . . . I'm jes'
plump tuckered out. . . . Goo' night, everybody."
His eyes fluttered and went shut.  His chin fell forward on his chest.
And even as they eased him down upon the blankets his snores were rising
on the frosty air.
But there was another sound.  Far and faint it was, in the remote
distance, the cry of the hungry wolf-pack as it took the trail of other
meat than the man it had just missed.
PART II
CHAPTER I--THE BATTLE OF THE FANGS
It was the she-wolf who had first caught the sound of men's voices and
the whining of the sled-dogs; and it was the she-wolf who was first to
spring away from the cornered man in his circle of dying flame.  The pack
had been loath to forego the kill it had hunted down, and it lingered for
several minutes, making sure of the sounds, and then it, too, sprang away
on the trail made by the she-wolf.
