She ceased speaking, and pressed my hand warmly. I too could not speak
without emotion. Some minutes passed.
"Yes, it's clear he won't come to-night," she said at last raising her
head. "It's late."
"He will come to-morrow," I said in the most firm and convincing tone.
"Yes," she added with no sign of her former depression. "I see for
myself now that he could not come till to-morrow. Well, good-bye, till
to-morrow. If it rains perhaps I shall not come. But the day after
to-morrow, I shall come. I shall come for certain, whatever happens; be
sure to be here, I want to see you, I will tell you everything."
And then when we parted she gave me her hand and said, looking at me
candidly: "We shall always be together, shan't we?"
Oh, Nastenka, Nastenka! If only you knew how lonely I am now!
As soon as it struck nine o'clock I could not stay indoors, but put on
my things, and went out in spite of the weather. I was there, sitting on
our seat. I went to her street, but I felt ashamed, and turned back
without looking at their windows, when I was two steps from her door. I
went home more depressed than I had ever been before. What a damp,
dreary day! If it had been fine I should have walked about all night....
But to-morrow, to-morrow! To-morrow she will tell me everything. The
letter has not come to-day, however. But that was to be expected. They
are together by now....
FOURTH NIGHT
My God, how it has all ended! What it has all ended in! I arrived at
nine o'clock. She was already there. I noticed her a good way off; she
was standing as she had been that first time, with her elbows on the
railing, and she did not hear me coming up to her.
"Nastenka!" I called to her, suppressing my agitation with an effort.
She turned to me quickly.
"Well?" she said. "Well? Make haste!"
I looked at her in perplexity.
"Well, where is the letter? Have you brought the letter?" she repeated
clutching at the railing.
"No, there is no letter," I said at last. "Hasn't he been to you yet?"
She turned fearfully pale and looked at me for a long time without
moving. I had shattered her last hope.
"Well, God be with him," she said at last in a breaking voice; "God be
with him if he leaves me like that."
She dropped her eyes, then tried to look at me and could not. For
several minutes she was struggling with her emotion. All at once she
turned away, leaning her elbows against the railing and burst into
tears.
"Oh don't, don't!" I began; but looking at her I had not the heart to go
on, and what was I to say to her?
"Don't try and comfort me," she said; "don't talk about him; don't tell
me that he will come, that he has not cast me off so cruelly and so
inhumanly as he has. What for--what for? Can there have been something
in my letter, that unlucky letter?"
