‘They will not know thee, my lord,’ cried the Chamberlain.
‘I had thought that there had been men who were kinglike,’ he answered,
‘but it may be as thou sayest.  And yet I will not wear this robe, nor
will I be crowned with this crown, but even as I came to the palace so
will I go forth from it.’
And he bade them all leave him, save one page whom he kept as his
companion, a lad a year younger than himself.  Him he kept for his
service, and when he had bathed himself in clear water, he opened a great
painted chest, and from it he took the leathern tunic and rough sheepskin
cloak that he had worn when he had watched on the hillside the shaggy
goats of the goatherd.  These he put on, and in his hand he took his rude
shepherd’s staff.
And the little page opened his big blue eyes in wonder, and said smiling
to him, ‘My lord, I see thy robe and thy sceptre, but where is thy
crown?’
And the young King plucked a spray of wild briar that was climbing over
the balcony, and bent it, and made a circlet of it, and set it on his own
head.
‘This shall he my crown,’ he answered.
And thus attired he passed out of his chamber into the Great Hall, where
the nobles were waiting for him.
And the nobles made merry, and some of them cried out to him, ‘My lord,
the people wait for their king, and thou showest them a beggar,’ and
others were wroth and said, ‘He brings shame upon our state, and is
unworthy to be our master.’  But he answered them not a word, but passed
on, and went down the bright porphyry staircase, and out through the
gates of bronze, and mounted upon his horse, and rode towards the
cathedral, the little page running beside him.
And the people laughed and said, ‘It is the King’s fool who is riding
by,’ and they mocked him.
And he drew rein and said, ‘Nay, but I am the King.’  And he told them
his three dreams.
And a man came out of the crowd and spake bitterly to him, and said,
‘Sir, knowest thou not that out of the luxury of the rich cometh the life
of the poor?  By your pomp we are nurtured, and your vices give us bread.
To toil for a hard master is bitter, but to have no master to toil for is
more bitter still.  Thinkest thou that the ravens will feed us?  And what
cure hast thou for these things?  Wilt thou say to the buyer, “Thou shalt
buy for so much,” and to the seller, “Thou shalt sell at this price”?  I
trow not.  Therefore go back to thy Palace and put on thy purple and fine
linen.  What hast thou to do with us, and what we suffer?’
‘Are not the rich and the poor brothers?’ asked the young King.
