LORD GORING.  I had no idea that you, of all men in the world, could have
been so weak, Robert, as to yield to such a temptation as Baron Arnheim
held out to you.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Weak?  Oh, I am sick of hearing that phrase.  Sick
of using it about others.  Weak?  Do you really think, Arthur, that it is
weakness that yields to temptation?  I tell you that there are terrible
temptations that it requires strength, strength and courage, to yield to.
To stake all one's life on a single moment, to risk everything on one
throw, whether the stake be power or pleasure, I care not--there is no
weakness in that.  There is a horrible, a terrible courage.  I had that
courage.  I sat down the same afternoon and wrote Baron Arnheim the
letter this woman now holds.  He made three-quarters of a million over
the transaction.
LORD GORING.  And you?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I received from the Baron 110,000 pounds.
LORD GORING.  You were worth more, Robert.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  No; that money gave me exactly what I wanted, power
over others.  I went into the House immediately.  The Baron advised me in
finance from time to time.  Before five years I had almost trebled my
fortune.  Since then everything that I have touched has turned out a
success.  In all things connected with money I have had a luck so
extraordinary that sometimes it has made me almost afraid.  I remember
having read somewhere, in some strange book, that when the gods wish to
punish us they answer our prayers.
LORD GORING.  But tell me, Robert, did you never suffer any regret for
what you had done?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  No.  I felt that I had fought the century with its
own weapons, and won.
LORD GORING.  [_Sadly_.]  You thought you had won.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I thought so.  [_After a long pause_.]  Arthur, do
you despise me for what I have told you?
LORD GORING.  [_With deep feeling in his voice_.]  I am very sorry for
you, Robert, very sorry indeed.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I don't say that I suffered any remorse.  I didn't.
Not remorse in the ordinary, rather silly sense of the word.  But I have
paid conscience money many times.  I had a wild hope that I might disarm
destiny.  The sum Baron Arnheim gave me I have distributed twice over in
public charities since then.
LORD GORING.  [_Looking up_.]  In public charities?  Dear me! what a lot
of harm you must have done, Robert!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Oh, don't say that, Arthur; don't talk like that!
LORD GORING.  Never mind what I say, Robert!  I am always saying what I
shouldn't say.  In fact, I usually say what I really think.  A great
mistake nowadays.  It makes one so liable to be misunderstood.  As
regards this dreadful business, I will help you in whatever way I can.
Of course you know that.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Thank you, Arthur, thank you.  But what is to be
done?  What can be done?
