Lord Arthur put the capsule into a pretty little silver _bonbonniere_
that he saw in a shop window in Bond Street, threw away Pestle and
Hambey’s ugly pill-box, and drove off at once to Lady Clementina’s.
‘Well, _monsieur le mauvais sujet_,’ cried the old lady, as he entered
the room, ‘why haven’t you been to see me all this time?’
‘My dear Lady Clem, I never have a moment to myself,’ said Lord Arthur,
smiling.
‘I suppose you mean that you go about all day long with Miss Sybil
Merton, buying _chiffons_ and talking nonsense?  I cannot understand why
people make such a fuss about being married.  In my day we never dreamed
of billing and cooing in public, or in private for that matter.’
‘I assure you I have not seen Sybil for twenty-four hours, Lady Clem.  As
far as I can make out, she belongs entirely to her milliners.’
‘Of course; that is the only reason you come to see an ugly old woman
like myself.  I wonder you men don’t take warning.  _On a fait des folies
pour moi_, and here I am, a poor rheumatic creature, with a false front
and a bad temper.  Why, if it were not for dear Lady Jansen, who sends me
all the worst French novels she can find, I don’t think I could get
through the day.  Doctors are no use at all, except to get fees out of
one.  They can’t even cure my heartburn.’
‘I have brought you a cure for that, Lady Clem,’ said Lord Arthur
gravely.  ‘It is a wonderful thing, invented by an American.’
‘I don’t think I like American inventions, Arthur.  I am quite sure I
don’t.  I read some American novels lately, and they were quite
nonsensical.’
‘Oh, but there is no nonsense at all about this, Lady Clem!  I assure you
it is a perfect cure.  You must promise to try it’; and Lord Arthur
brought the little box out of his pocket, and handed it to her.
‘Well, the box is charming, Arthur.  Is it really a present?  That is
very sweet of you.  And is this the wonderful medicine?  It looks like a
_bonbon_.  I’ll take it at once.’
‘Good heavens!  Lady Clem,’ cried Lord Arthur, catching hold of her hand,
‘you mustn’t do anything of the kind.  It is a homoeopathic medicine, and
if you take it without having heartburn, it might do you no end of harm.
Wait till you have an attack, and take it then.  You will be astonished
at the result.’
‘I should like to take it now,’ said Lady Clementina, holding up to the
light the little transparent capsule, with its floating bubble of liquid
aconitine.  I am sure it is delicious.  The fact is that, though I hate
doctors, I love medicines.  However, I’ll keep it till my next attack.’
‘And when will that be?’ asked Lord Arthur eagerly.  ‘Will it be soon?’
‘I hope not for a week.  I had a very bad time yesterday morning with it.
But one never knows.’
