At two o’clock he got up, and strolled towards Blackfriars.  How unreal
everything looked!  How like a strange dream!  The houses on the other
side of the river seemed built out of darkness.  One would have said that
silver and shadow had fashioned the world anew.  The huge dome of St.
Paul’s loomed like a bubble through the dusky air.
As he approached Cleopatra’s Needle he saw a man leaning over the
parapet, and as he came nearer the man looked up, the gas-light falling
full upon his face.
It was Mr. Podgers, the cheiromantist!  No one could mistake the fat,
flabby face, the gold-rimmed spectacles, the sickly feeble smile, the
sensual mouth.
Lord Arthur stopped.  A brilliant idea flashed across him, and he stole
softly up behind.  In a moment he had seized Mr. Podgers by the legs, and
flung him into the Thames.  There was a coarse oath, a heavy splash, and
all was still.  Lord Arthur looked anxiously over, but could see nothing
of the cheiromantist but a tall hat, pirouetting in an eddy of moonlit
water.  After a time it also sank, and no trace of Mr. Podgers was
visible.  Once he thought that he caught sight of the bulky misshapen
figure striking out for the staircase by the bridge, and a horrible
feeling of failure came over him, but it turned out to be merely a
reflection, and when the moon shone out from behind a cloud it passed
away.  At last he seemed to have realised the decree of destiny.  He
heaved a deep sigh of relief, and Sybil’s name came to his lips.
‘Have you dropped anything, sir?’ said a voice behind him suddenly.
He turned round, and saw a policeman with a bull’s-eye lantern.
‘Nothing of importance, sergeant,’ he answered, smiling, and hailing a
passing hansom, he jumped in, and told the man to drive to Belgrave
Square.
For the next few days he alternated between hope and fear.  There were
moments when he almost expected Mr. Podgers to walk into the room, and
yet at other times he felt that Fate could not be so unjust to him.
Twice he went to the cheiromantist’s address in West Moon Street, but he
could not bring himself to ring the bell.  He longed for certainty, and
was afraid of it.
Finally it came.  He was sitting in the smoking-room of the club having
tea, and listening rather wearily to Surbiton’s account of the last comic
song at the Gaiety, when the waiter came in with the evening papers.  He
took up the _St. James’s_, and was listlessly turning over its pages,
when this strange heading caught his eye:
                         SUICIDE OF A CHEIROMANTIST.
He turned pale with excitement, and began to read.  The paragraph ran as
follows:
    Yesterday morning, at seven o’clock, the body of Mr. Septimus R.
    Podgers, the eminent cheiromantist, was washed on shore at Greenwich,
    just in front of the Ship Hotel.  The unfortunate gentleman had been
    missing for some days, and considerable anxiety for his safety had
    been felt in cheiromantic circles.  It is supposed that he committed
    suicide under the influence of a temporary mental derangement, caused
    by overwork, and a verdict to that effect was returned this afternoon
    by the coroner’s jury.  Mr. Podgers had just completed an elaborate
    treatise on the subject of the Human Hand, that will shortly be
    published, when it will no doubt attract much attention.  The
    deceased was sixty-five years of age, and does not seem to have left
    any relations.
