Taking a general view of the works exhibited here, we see that this dull
land of England, with its short summer, its dreary rains and fogs, its
mining districts and factories, and vile deification of machinery, has
yet produced very great masters of art, men with a subtle sense and love
of what is beautiful, original, and noble in imagination.
Nor are the art-treasures of this country at all exhausted by this
Exhibition; there are very many great pictures by living artists hidden
away in different places, which those of us who are yet boys have never
seen, and which our elders must wish to see again.
Holman Hunt has done better work than the Afterglow in Egypt; neither
Millais, Leighton, nor Poynter has sent any of the pictures on which his
fame rests; neither Burne-Jones nor Watts shows us here all the glories
of his art; and the name of that strange genius who wrote the Vision of
Love revealed in Sleep, and the names of Dante Rossetti and of the
Marchioness of Waterford, cannot be found in the catalogue.  And so it is
to be hoped that this is not the only exhibition of paintings that we
shall see in the Grosvenor Gallery; and Sir Coutts Lindsay, in showing us
great works of art, will be most materially aiding that revival of
culture and love of beauty which in great part owes its birth to Mr.
Ruskin, and which Mr. Swinburne, and Mr. Pater, and Mr. Symonds, and Mr.
Morris, and many others, are fostering and keeping alive, each in his own
peculiar fashion.
THE GROSVENOR GALLERY 1879
(Saunders' Irish Daily News, May 5, 1879.)
While the yearly exhibition of the Royal Academy may be said to present
us with the general characteristics of ordinary English art at its most
commonplace level, it is at the Grosvenor Gallery that we are enabled to
see the highest development of the modern artistic spirit as well as what
one might call its specially accentuated tendencies.
Foremost among the great works now exhibited at this gallery are Mr.
Burne-Jones's Annunciation and his four pictures illustrating the Greek
legend of Pygmalion--works of the very highest importance in our aesthetic
development as illustrative of some of the more exquisite qualities of
modern culture.  In the first the Virgin Mary, a passionless, pale woman,
with that mysterious sorrow whose meaning she was so soon to learn
mirrored in her wan face, is standing, in grey drapery, by a marble
fountain, in what seems the open courtyard of an empty and silent house,
while through the branches of a tall olive tree, unseen by the Virgin's
tear-dimmed eyes, is descending the angel Gabriel with his joyful and
terrible message, not painted as Angelico loved to do, in the varied
splendour of peacock-like wings and garments of gold and crimson, but
somewhat sombre in colour, set with all the fine grace of nobly-fashioned
drapery and exquisitely ordered design.  In presence of what may be
called the mediaeval spirit may be discerned both the idea and the
technique of the work, and even still more so in the four pictures of the
story of Pygmalion, where the sculptor is represented in dress and in
looks rather as a Christian St. Francis, than as a pure Greek artist in
the first morning tide of art, creating his own ideal, and worshipping
it.  For delicacy and melody of colour these pictures are beyond praise,
nor can anything exceed the idyllic loveliness of Aphrodite waking the
statue into sensuous life: the world above her head like a brittle globe
of glass, her feet resting on a drift of the blue sky, and a choir of
doves fluttering around her like a fall of white snow.  Following in the
same school of ideal and imaginative painting is Miss Evelyn Pickering,
whose picture of St. Catherine, in the Dudley of some years ago,
attracted such great attention.  To the present gallery she has
contributed a large picture of Night and Sleep, twin brothers floating
over the world in indissoluble embrace, the one spreading the cloak of
darkness, while from the other's listless hands the Leathean poppies fall
in a scarlet shower.  Mr. Strudwich sends a picture of Isabella, which
realises in some measure the pathos of Keats's poem, and another of the
lover in the lily garden from the Song of Solomon, both works full of
delicacy of design and refinement of detail, yet essentially weak in
colour, and in comparison with the splendid Giorgione-like work of Mr.
Fairfax Murray, are more like the coloured drawings of the modern German
school than what we properly call a painting.  The last-named artist,
while essentially weak in draughtsmanship, yet possesses the higher
quality of noble colour in the fullest degree.
