   . . . . .
   And then he looked about him, and him seemed he was in the fairest
   tower of the world, and the most strong; neither of iron was it
   fashioned, nor steel, nor timber, nor of stone, but of the air,
   without any other thing; and in sooth so strong it is that it may
   never be undone while the world endureth.
So runs the chronicle; and thus Mr. Burne-Jones, the 'Archimage of the
esoteric unreal,' treats the subject.  Stretched upon a low branch of the
tree, and encircled with the glory of the white hawthorn-blossoms, half
sits, half lies, the great enchanter.  He is not drawn as Mr. Tennyson
has described him, with the 'vast and shaggy mantle of a beard,' which
youth gone out had left in ashes; smooth and clear-cut and very pale is
his face; time has not seared him with wrinkles or the signs of age; one
would hardly know him to be old were it not that he seems very weary of
seeking into the mysteries of the world, and that the great sadness that
is born of wisdom has cast a shadow on him.  But now what availeth him
his wisdom or his arts?  His eyes, that saw once so clear, are dim and
glazed with coming death, and his white and delicate hands that wrought
of old such works of marvel, hang listlessly.  Vivien, a tall, lithe
woman, beautiful and subtle to look on, like a snake, stands in front of
him, reading the fatal spell from the enchanted book; mocking the utter
helplessness of him whom once her lying tongue had called
      Her lord and liege,
   Her seer, her bard, her silver star of eve,
   Her god, her Merlin, the one passionate love
   Of her whole life.
In her brown crisp hair is the gleam of a golden snake, and she is clad
in a silken robe of dark violet that clings tightly to her limbs, more
expressing than hiding them; the colour of this dress is like the colour
of a purple sea-shell, broken here and there with slight gleams of silver
and pink and azure; it has a strange metallic lustre like the iris-neck
of the dove.  Were this Mr. Burne-Jones's only work it would be enough of
itself to make him rank as a great painter.  The picture is full of
magic; and the colour is truly a spirit dwelling on things and making
them expressive to the spirit, for the delicate tones of grey, and green,
and violet seem to convey to us the idea of languid sleep, and even the
hawthorn-blossoms have lost their wonted brightness, and are more like
the pale moonlight to which Shelley compared them, than the sheet of
summer snow we see now in our English fields.
The next picture is divided into six compartments, each representing a
day in the Creation of the World, under the symbol of an angel holding a
crystal globe, within which is shown the work of a day.  In the first
compartment stands the lonely angel of the First Day, and within the
crystal ball Light is being separated from Darkness.  In the fourth
compartment are four angels, and the crystal glows like a heated opal,
for within it the creation of the Sun, Moon, and Stars is passing; the
number of the angels increases, and the colours grow more vivid till we
reach the sixth compartment, which shines afar off like a rainbow.  Within
it are the six angels of the Creation, each holding its crystal ball; and
within the crystal of the sixth angel one can see Adam's strong brown
limbs and hero form, and the pale, beautiful body of Eve.  At the feet
also of these six winged messengers of the Creator is sitting the angel
of the Seventh Day, who on a harp of gold is singing the glories of that
coming day which we have not yet seen.  The faces of the angels are pale
and oval-shaped, in their eyes is the light of Wisdom and Love, and their
lips seem as if they would speak to us; and strength and beauty are in
their wings.  They stand with naked feet, some on shell-strewn sands
whereon tide has never washed nor storm broken, others it seems on pools
of water, others on strange flowers; and their hair is like the bright
glory round a saint's head.
