   And I will tell thee why the jacinth wears
      Such dread embroidery of dolorous moan,
   And why the hapless nightingale forbears
      To sing her song at noon, but weeps alone
   When the fleet swallow sleeps, and rich men feast,
   And why the laurel trembles when she sees the lightening east.
   And I will sing how sad Proserpina
      Unto a grave and gloomy Lord was wed,
   And lure the silver-breasted Helena
      Back from the lotus meadows of the dead,
   So shalt thou see that awful loveliness
   For which two mighty Hosts met fearfully in war’s abyss!
   And then I’ll pipe to thee that Grecian tale
      How Cynthia loves the lad Endymion,
   And hidden in a grey and misty veil
      Hies to the cliffs of Latmos once the Sun
   Leaps from his ocean bed in fruitless chase
   Of those pale flying feet which fade away in his embrace.
   And if my flute can breathe sweet melody,
      We may behold Her face who long ago
   Dwelt among men by the Agean sea,
      And whose sad house with pillaged portico
   And friezeless wall and columns toppled down
   Looms o’er the ruins of that fair and violet cinctured town.
   Spirit of Beauty! tarry still awhile,
      They are not dead, thine ancient votaries;
   Some few there are to whom thy radiant smile
      Is better than a thousand victories,
   Though all the nobly slain of Waterloo
   Rise up in wrath against them! tarry still, there are a few
   Who for thy sake would give their manlihood
      And consecrate their being; I at least
   Have done so, made thy lips my daily food,
      And in thy temples found a goodlier feast
   Than this starved age can give me, spite of all
   Its new-found creeds so sceptical and so dogmatical.
   Here not Cephissos, not Ilissos flows,
      The woods of white Colonos are not here,
   On our bleak hills the olive never blows,
      No simple priest conducts his lowing steer
   Up the steep marble way, nor through the town
   Do laughing maidens bear to thee the crocus-flowered gown.
   Yet tarry! for the boy who loved thee best,
      Whose very name should be a memory
   To make thee linger, sleeps in silent rest
      Beneath the Roman walls, and melody
   Still mourns her sweetest lyre; none can play
   The lute of Adonais: with his lips Song passed away.
   Nay, when Keats died the Muses still had left
      One silver voice to sing his threnody,
   But ah! too soon of it we were bereft
      When on that riven night and stormy sea
   Panthea claimed her singer as her own,
   And slew the mouth that praised her; since which time we walk alone,
   Save for that fiery heart, that morning star
      Of re-arisen England, whose clear eye
   Saw from our tottering throne and waste of war
      The grand Greek limbs of young Democracy
   Rise mightily like Hesperus and bring
   The great Republic! him at least thy love hath taught to sing,
   And he hath been with thee at Thessaly,
      And seen white Atalanta fleet of foot
   In passionless and fierce virginity
      Hunting the tusked boar, his honied lute
   Hath pierced the cavern of the hollow hill,
   And Venus laughs to know one knee will bow before her still.
