SONNET
              ON THE MASSACRE OF THE CHRISTIANS IN BULGARIA
   CHRIST, dost Thou live indeed? or are Thy bones
   Still straitened in their rock-hewn sepulchre?
   And was Thy Rising only dreamed by her
   Whose love of Thee for all her sin atones?
   For here the air is horrid with men’s groans,
   The priests who call upon Thy name are slain,
   Dost Thou not hear the bitter wail of pain
   From those whose children lie upon the stones?
   Come down, O Son of God! incestuous gloom
   Curtains the land, and through the starless night
   Over Thy Cross a Crescent moon I see!
   If Thou in very truth didst burst the tomb
   Come down, O Son of Man! and show Thy might
   Lest Mahomet be crowned instead of Thee!
QUANTUM MUTATA
   THERE was a time in Europe long ago
      When no man died for freedom anywhere,
      But England’s lion leaping from its lair
   Laid hands on the oppressor! it was so
   While England could a great Republic show.
      Witness the men of Piedmont, chiefest care
      Of Cromwell, when with impotent despair
   The Pontiff in his painted portico
   Trembled before our stern ambassadors.
      How comes it then that from such high estate
      We have thus fallen, save that Luxury
   With barren merchandise piles up the gate
   Where noble thoughts and deeds should enter by:
      Else might we still be Milton’s heritors.
LIBERTATIS SACRA FAMES
   ALBEIT nurtured in democracy,
      And liking best that state republican
      Where every man is Kinglike and no man
   Is crowned above his fellows, yet I see,
   Spite of this modern fret for Liberty,
      Better the rule of One, whom all obey,
      Than to let clamorous demagogues betray
   Our freedom with the kiss of anarchy.
   Wherefore I love them not whose hands profane
      Plant the red flag upon the piled-up street
      For no right cause, beneath whose ignorant reign
   Arts, Culture, Reverence, Honour, all things fade,
      Save Treason and the dagger of her trade,
      Or Murder with his silent bloody feet.
THEORETIKOS
   THIS mighty empire hath but feet of clay:
      Of all its ancient chivalry and might
      Our little island is forsaken quite:
   Some enemy hath stolen its crown of bay,
   And from its hills that voice hath passed away
      Which spake of Freedom: O come out of it,
      Come out of it, my Soul, thou art not fit
   For this vile traffic-house, where day by day
      Wisdom and reverence are sold at mart,
      And the rude people rage with ignorant cries
   Against an heritage of centuries.
      It mars my calm: wherefore in dreams of Art
      And loftiest culture I would stand apart,
   Neither for God, nor for his enemies.
THE GARDEN OF EROS
   IT is full summer now, the heart of June;
      Not yet the sunburnt reapers are astir
   Upon the upland meadow where too soon
      Rich autumn time, the season’s usurer,
   Will lend his hoarded gold to all the trees,
   And see his treasure scattered by the wild and spendthrift breeze.
   Too soon indeed! yet here the daffodil,
      That love-child of the Spring, has lingered on
   To vex the rose with jealousy, and still
      The harebell spreads her azure pavilion,
   And like a strayed and wandering reveller
   Abandoned of its brothers, whom long since June’s messenger
