MONTRE MARIO.
SONNET
            ON HEARING THE DIES IRA SUNG IN THE SISTINE CHAPEL
   NAY, Lord, not thus! white lilies in the spring,
   Sad olive-groves, or silver-breasted dove,
      Teach me more clearly of Thy life and love
   Than terrors of red flame and thundering.
   The hillside vines dear memories of Thee bring:
      A bird at evening flying to its nest
      Tells me of One who had no place of rest:
   I think it is of Thee the sparrows sing.
   Come rather on some autumn afternoon,
      When red and brown are burnished on the leaves,
      And the fields echo to the gleaner’s song,
   Come when the splendid fulness of the moon
      Looks down upon the rows of golden sheaves,
      And reap Thy harvest: we have waited long.
EASTER DAY
   THE silver trumpets rang across the Dome:
      The people knelt upon the ground with awe:
      And borne upon the necks of men I saw,
   Like some great God, the Holy Lord of Rome.
   Priest-like, he wore a robe more white than foam,
      And, king-like, swathed himself in royal red,
      Three crowns of gold rose high upon his head:
   In splendour and in light the Pope passed home.
   My heart stole back across wide wastes of years
      To One who wandered by a lonely sea,
      And sought in vain for any place of rest:
   ‘Foxes have holes, and every bird its nest.
      I, only I, must wander wearily,
      And bruise my feet, and drink wine salt with tears.’
E TENEBRIS
   COME down, O Christ, and help me! reach Thy hand,
      For I am drowning in a stormier sea
      Than Simon on Thy lake of Galilee:
   The wine of life is spilt upon the sand,
   My heart is as some famine-murdered land
      Whence all good things have perished utterly,
      And well I know my soul in Hell must lie
   If I this night before God’s throne should stand.
   ‘He sleeps perchance, or rideth to the chase,
      Like Baal, when his prophets howled that name
      From morn to noon on Carmel’s smitten height.’
   Nay, peace, I shall behold, before the night,
      The feet of brass, the robe more white than flame,
      The wounded hands, the weary human face.
VITA NUOVA
   I STOOD by the unvintageable sea
      Till the wet waves drenched face and hair with spray;
      The long red fires of the dying day
   Burned in the west; the wind piped drearily;
   And to the land the clamorous gulls did flee:
      ‘Alas!’ I cried, ‘my life is full of pain,
      And who can garner fruit or golden grain
   From these waste fields which travail ceaselessly!’
   My nets gaped wide with many a break and flaw,
      Nathless I threw them as my final cast
      Into the sea, and waited for the end.
   When lo! a sudden glory! and I saw
      From the black waters of my tortured past
      The argent splendour of white limbs ascend!
MADONNA MIA
   A LILY-GIRL, not made for this world’s pain,
      With brown, soft hair close braided by her ears,
      And longing eyes half veiled by slumberous tears
   Like bluest water seen through mists of rain:
   Pale cheeks whereon no love hath left its stain,
      Red underlip drawn in for fear of love,
      And white throat, whiter than the silvered dove,
   Through whose wan marble creeps one purple vein.
   Yet, though my lips shall praise her without cease,
      Even to kiss her feet I am not bold,
      Being o’ershadowed by the wings of awe,
   Like Dante, when he stood with Beatrice
      Beneath the flaming Lion’s breast, and saw
      The seventh Crystal, and the Stair of Gold.
