   Sing on! sing on!  I would be drunk with life,
      Drunk with the trampled vintage of my youth,
   I would forget the wearying wasted strife,
      The riven veil, the Gorgon eyes of Truth,
   The prayerless vigil and the cry for prayer,
   The barren gifts, the lifted arms, the dull insensate air!
   Sing on! sing on!  O feathered Niobe,
      Thou canst make sorrow beautiful, and steal
   From joy its sweetest music, not as we
      Who by dead voiceless silence strive to heal
   Our too untented wounds, and do but keep
   Pain barricadoed in our hearts, and murder pillowed sleep.
   Sing louder yet, why must I still behold
      The wan white face of that deserted Christ,
   Whose bleeding hands my hands did once enfold,
      Whose smitten lips my lips so oft have kissed,
   And now in mute and marble misery
   Sits in his lone dishonoured House and weeps, perchance for me?
   O Memory cast down thy wreathed shell!
      Break thy hoarse lute O sad Melpomene!
   O Sorrow, Sorrow keep thy cloistered cell
      Nor dim with tears this limpid Castaly!
   Cease, Philomel, thou dost the forest wrong
   To vex its sylvan quiet with such wild impassioned song!
   Cease, cease, or if ’t is anguish to be dumb
      Take from the pastoral thrush her simpler air,
   Whose jocund carelessness doth more become
      This English woodland than thy keen despair,
   Ah! cease and let the north wind bear thy lay
   Back to the rocky hills of Thrace, the stormy Daulian bay.
   A moment more, the startled leaves had stirred,
      Endymion would have passed across the mead
   Moonstruck with love, and this still Thames had heard
      Pan plash and paddle groping for some reed
   To lure from her blue cave that Naiad maid
   Who for such piping listens half in joy and half afraid.
   A moment more, the waking dove had cooed,
      The silver daughter of the silver sea
   With the fond gyves of clinging hands had wooed
      Her wanton from the chase, and Dryope
   Had thrust aside the branches of her oak
   To see the lusty gold-haired lad rein in his snorting yoke.
   A moment more, the trees had stooped to kiss
      Pale Daphne just awakening from the swoon
   Of tremulous laurels, lonely Salmacis
      Had bared his barren beauty to the moon,
   And through the vale with sad voluptuous smile
   Antinous had wandered, the red lotus of the Nile
   Down leaning from his black and clustering hair,
      To shade those slumberous eyelids’ caverned bliss,
   Or else on yonder grassy slope with bare
      High-tuniced limbs unravished Artemis
   Had bade her hounds give tongue, and roused the deer
   From his green ambuscade with shrill halloo and pricking spear.
   Lie still, lie still, O passionate heart, lie still!
      O Melancholy, fold thy raven wing!
   O sobbing Dryad, from thy hollow hill
      Come not with such despondent answering!
   No more thou winged Marsyas complain,
   Apollo loveth not to hear such troubled songs of pain!
   It was a dream, the glade is tenantless,
      No soft Ionian laughter moves the air,
   The Thames creeps on in sluggish leadenness,
      And from the copse left desolate and bare
   Fled is young Bacchus with his revelry,
   Yet still from Nuneham wood there comes that thrilling melody
