Jack.  Your duty as a gentleman calls you back.
Algernon.  My duty as a gentleman has never interfered with my pleasures
in the smallest degree.
Jack.  I can quite understand that.
Algernon.  Well, Cecily is a darling.
Jack.  You are not to talk of Miss Cardew like that.  I don't like it.
Algernon.  Well, I don't like your clothes.  You look perfectly
ridiculous in them.  Why on earth don't you go up and change?  It is
perfectly childish to be in deep mourning for a man who is actually
staying for a whole week with you in your house as a guest.  I call it
grotesque.
Jack.  You are certainly not staying with me for a whole week as a guest
or anything else.  You have got to leave . . . by the four-five train.
Algernon.  I certainly won't leave you so long as you are in mourning.  It
would be most unfriendly.  If I were in mourning you would stay with me,
I suppose.  I should think it very unkind if you didn't.
Jack.  Well, will you go if I change my clothes?
Algernon.  Yes, if you are not too long.  I never saw anybody take so
long to dress, and with such little result.
Jack.  Well, at any rate, that is better than being always over-dressed
as you are.
Algernon.  If I am occasionally a little over-dressed, I make up for it
by being always immensely over-educated.
Jack.  Your vanity is ridiculous, your conduct an outrage, and your
presence in my garden utterly absurd.  However, you have got to catch the
four-five, and I hope you will have a pleasant journey back to town.  This
Bunburying, as you call it, has not been a great success for you.
[Goes into the house.]
Algernon.  I think it has been a great success.  I'm in love with Cecily,
and that is everything.
[Enter Cecily at the back of the garden.  She picks up the can and begins
to water the flowers.]  But I must see her before I go, and make
arrangements for another Bunbury.  Ah, there she is.
Cecily.  Oh, I merely came back to water the roses.  I thought you were
with Uncle Jack.
Algernon.  He's gone to order the dog-cart for me.
Cecily.  Oh, is he going to take you for a nice drive?
Algernon.  He's going to send me away.
Cecily.  Then have we got to part?
Algernon.  I am afraid so.  It's a very painful parting.
Cecily.  It is always painful to part from people whom one has known for
a very brief space of time.  The absence of old friends one can endure
with equanimity.  But even a momentary separation from anyone to whom one
has just been introduced is almost unbearable.
Algernon.  Thank you.
[Enter Merriman.]
Merriman.  The dog-cart is at the door, sir.  [Algernon looks appealingly
at Cecily.]
Cecily.  It can wait, Merriman for . . . five minutes.
Merriman.  Yes, Miss.  [Exit Merriman.]
Algernon.  I hope, Cecily, I shall not offend you if I state quite
frankly and openly that you seem to me to be in every way the visible
personification of absolute perfection.
