Jack.  I'm not a Bunburyist at all.  If Gwendolen accepts me, I am going
to kill my brother, indeed I think I'll kill him in any case.  Cecily is
a little too much interested in him.  It is rather a bore.  So I am going
to get rid of Ernest.  And I strongly advise you to do the same with Mr.
. . . with your invalid friend who has the absurd name.
Algernon.  Nothing will induce me to part with Bunbury, and if you ever
get married, which seems to me extremely problematic, you will be very
glad to know Bunbury.  A man who marries without knowing Bunbury has a
very tedious time of it.
Jack.  That is nonsense.  If I marry a charming girl like Gwendolen, and
she is the only girl I ever saw in my life that I would marry, I
certainly won't want to know Bunbury.
Algernon.  Then your wife will.  You don't seem to realise, that in
married life three is company and two is none.
Jack.  [Sententiously.]  That, my dear young friend, is the theory that
the corrupt French Drama has been propounding for the last fifty years.
Algernon.  Yes; and that the happy English home has proved in half the
time.
Jack.  For heaven's sake, don't try to be cynical.  It's perfectly easy
to be cynical.
Algernon.  My dear fellow, it isn't easy to be anything nowadays.  There's
such a lot of beastly competition about.  [The sound of an electric bell
is heard.]  Ah! that must be Aunt Augusta.  Only relatives, or creditors,
ever ring in that Wagnerian manner.  Now, if I get her out of the way for
ten minutes, so that you can have an opportunity for proposing to
Gwendolen, may I dine with you to-night at Willis's?
Jack.  I suppose so, if you want to.
Algernon.  Yes, but you must be serious about it.  I hate people who are
not serious about meals.  It is so shallow of them.
[Enter Lane.]
Lane.  Lady Bracknell and Miss Fairfax.
[Algernon goes forward to meet them.  Enter Lady Bracknell and
Gwendolen.]
Lady Bracknell.  Good afternoon, dear Algernon, I hope you are behaving
very well.
Algernon.  I'm feeling very well, Aunt Augusta.
Lady Bracknell.  That's not quite the same thing.  In fact the two things
rarely go together.  [Sees Jack and bows to him with icy coldness.]
Algernon.  [To Gwendolen.]  Dear me, you are smart!
Gwendolen.  I am always smart!  Am I not, Mr. Worthing?
Jack.  You're quite perfect, Miss Fairfax.
Gwendolen.  Oh! I hope I am not that.  It would leave no room for
developments, and I intend to develop in many directions.  [Gwendolen and
Jack sit down together in the corner.]
Lady Bracknell.  I'm sorry if we are a little late, Algernon, but I was
obliged to call on dear Lady Harbury.  I hadn't been there since her poor
husband's death.  I never saw a woman so altered; she looks quite twenty
years younger.  And now I'll have a cup of tea, and one of those nice
cucumber sandwiches you promised me.
