CZARE. Father, Emperor, Imperial Master, I plead not for my own life,
but for the lives of my brothers, the people.
PRINCE PAUL (_bitterly_). Your brothers, the people, Prince, are not
content with their own lives, they always want to take their neighbour's
too.
CZAR (_standing up_). I am sick of being afraid. I have done with terror
now. From this day I proclaim war against the people--war to their
annihilation. As they have dealt with me, so shall I deal with them. I
shall grind them to powder, and strew their dust upon the air. There
shall be a spy in every man's house, a traitor on every hearth, a
hangman in every village, a gibbet in every square. Plague, leprosy, or
fever shall be less deadly than my wrath; I will make every frontier a
grave-yard, every province a lazar-house, and cure the sick by the
sword. I shall have peace in Russia, though it be the peace of the dead.
Who said I was a coward? Who said I was afraid? See, thus shall I crush
this people beneath my feet! (_Takes up sword of CZAREVITCH off table
and tramples on it._)
CZARE. Father, beware, the sword you tread on may turn and wound you.
The people suffer long, but vengeance comes at last, vengeance with red
hands and bloody purpose.
PRINCE PAUL. Bah! the people are bad shots; they always miss one.
CZARE. There are times when the people are instruments of God.
CZAR. Ay! and when kings are God's scourges for the people. Oh, my own
son, in my own house! My own flesh and blood against me! Take him away!
Take him away! Bring in my guards. (_Enter the Imperial Guard. CZAR
points to CZAREVITCH, who stands alone at the side of the stage._) To
the blackest prison in Moscow! Let me never see his face again.
(_CZAREVITCH is being led out._) No, no, leave him! I don't trust
guards. They are all Nihilists! They would let him escape and he would
kill me, kill me! No, I'll bring him to prison myself, you and I (_to
PRINCE PAUL_). I trust you, you have no mercy. I shall have no mercy.
Oh, my own son against me! How hot it is! The air stifles me! I feel as
if I were going to faint, as if something were at my throat. Open the
windows, I say! Out of my sight! Out of my sight! I can't bear his eyes.
Wait, wait for me. (_Throws window open and goes out on balcony._)
PRINCE PAUL (_looking at his watch_). The dinner is sure to be spoiled.
How annoying politics are and eldest sons!
VOICE (_outside, in the street_). God save the people! (_CZAR is shot,
and staggers back into the room._)
CZARE. (_breaking from the guards, and rushing over_). Father!
CZAR. Murderer! Murderer! You did it! Murderer! (_Dies._)
TABLEAU.
END OF ACT II.
ACT III.
_Same scene and business as Act I. Man in yellow dress, with drawn
sword, at the door._
