Holmes rose and tossed the end of his cigarette into the grate. "I have
been very obtuse, Watson," said he. "When in your report you said that
you had seen the cyclist as you thought arrange his necktie in
the shrubbery, that alone should have told me all. However, we may
congratulate ourselves upon a curious and, in some respects, a unique
case. I perceive three of the county constabulary in the drive, and I am
glad to see that the little ostler is able to keep pace with them, so
it is likely that neither he nor the interesting bridegroom will be
permanently damaged by their morning's adventures. I think, Watson, that
in your medical capacity, you might wait upon Miss Smith and tell her
that if she is sufficiently recovered, we shall be happy to escort her
to her mother's home. If she is not quite convalescent you will find
that a hint that we were about to telegraph to a young electrician
in the Midlands would probably complete the cure. As to you, Mr.
Carruthers, I think that you have done what you could to make amends for
your share in an evil plot. There is my card, sir, and if my evidence
can be of help in your trial, it shall be at your disposal."
In the whirl of our incessant activity, it has often been difficult for
me, as the reader has probably observed, to round off my narratives, and
to give those final details which the curious might expect. Each case
has been the prelude to another, and the crisis once over, the actors
have passed for ever out of our busy lives. I find, however, a short
note at the end of my manuscript dealing with this case, in which I have
put it upon record that Miss Violet Smith did indeed inherit a large
fortune, and that she is now the wife of Cyril Morton, the senior
partner of Morton & Kennedy, the famous Westminster electricians.
Williamson and Woodley were both tried for abduction and assault, the
former getting seven years the latter ten. Of the fate of Carruthers,
I have no record, but I am sure that his assault was not viewed very
gravely by the court, since Woodley had the reputation of being a most
dangerous ruffian, and I think that a few, months were sufficient to
satisfy the demands of justice.
THE ADVENTURE OF THE PRIORY SCHOOL
We have had some dramatic entrances and exits upon our small stage at
Baker Street, but I cannot recollect anything more sudden and startling
than the first appearance of Thorneycroft Huxtable, M.A., Ph.D., etc.
His card, which seemed too small to carry the weight of his academic
distinctions, preceded him by a few seconds, and then he entered
himself--so large, so pompous, and so dignified that he was the very
embodiment of self-possession and solidity. And yet his first action,
when the door had closed behind him, was to stagger against the table,
whence he slipped down upon the floor, and there was that majestic
figure prostrate and insensible upon our bearskin hearth-rug.
