How greatly he needed the intellectual basis which he found in none of
these researches becomes increasingly plain in each novel that he
published during this period. _The Portrait of a Lady_ (1881) is given a
superficial unity by the beauty of its heroine; on the first reading one
cannot take one's eyes off the clear gaze that Isabel Archer levels at
life. As she moves forward to meet the world, holding her fortune in
hand without avarice yet very carefully, lest she should buy anything
gross with it, one thinks that there never was a heroine who deserved
better of life. "She spent half her time in thinking of beauty, and
bravery, and magnanimity; she had a fixed determination to regard the
world as a place of brightness, of free expansion, of irresistible
action; she thought it would be detestable to be afraid or ashamed. She
had an infinite hope that she would never do anything wrong." One is
glad to see that the girl has the most wonderful friend, a woman who is
at once the most flexible _femme du monde_ and the freshest and most
candid soul; and among the kindnesses this friend does her is her
introduction to a certain Tuscan villa that looks down on the valley of
the Arno, where on a mossy stone bench tangled with wild roses there
sits Gilbert Osmond, a gentleman of great dignity who has been too fine
to partake in the common struggle and so lives in honest poverty, with
his daughter Pansy, a little girl from whose character conventual
training has removed every attribute save whiteness and sweetness, so
that she lies under life like a fine cloth on a sunny bleaching-green.
Here, of all places in the world, she is least likely to meet the
jealousy and falseness and cruelty which were the only things she
feared, and so she marries Osmond in the happy faith that henceforth
nothing will be admitted to her life save nobility. But all her marriage
brings the girl is evidence of increasing painfulness that her friend
is a squalid adventuress who has preserved her appearance of freshness
as carefully as a strolling musician his fiddle, in order that she might
charm such honest fools as Isabel; that Osmond has withdrawn from the
world, not because he is too fine for it, but because he is a hating
creature, and hates the world as he now hates his wife; that Pansy is
the illegitimate child of these two, and her need of a dowry the chief
reason why Osmond has married Isabel. It is a tale which would draw
tears from a reviewer, and yet the conduct invented for Isabel is so
inconsistent and so suggestive of the nincompoop, and so clearly
proceeding from a brain whose ethical world was but a chaos, that it is
a mistake to subject the book to the white light of a second reading.
When we are told that Isabel married Osmond because "there had been
nothing very delicate in inheriting seventy thousand pounds, and she
hoped he might use her fortune in a way that might make her think better
of it and would rub off a certain grossness attaching to the good luck
of an unexpected inheritance," we feel that this is mere simpering; for
there could be nothing less delicate than to marry a person for any
reason but the consciousness of passion. And the grand climax of her
conduct, her return to Osmond after the full revelation of his guilt has
come to augment her anguish at his unkindness, proves her not the very
paragon of ladies but merely very ladylike. If their marriage was to be
a reality it was to be a degradation of the will whose integrity the
whole book is an invitation to admire; if it was to be a sham it was
still a larger concession to society than should have been made by an
honest woman. Yet for all the poor quality of the motives which furnish
Isabel's moral stuffing, _The Portrait of a Lady_ is entirely n
successful in giving one the sense of having met somebody far too
radiantly good for this world.
