That is the pure note of the early James, like a pipe played carefully
by a boy. It sounds as beautifully in _Daisy Miller_, that short novel
which, though it deals with conditions peculiar to a small section of
continental life forty years ago, will strike each new generation afresh
as sad and lovely. Daisy, who is like one of those girls who smile upon
us from the covers of American magazines, glaringly beautiful and
healthy but without the "tone" given by diligent study of the grace of
conduct, comes to Europe and plays in its sunshine like a happy child.
She wants to go to the Castle of Chillon, so she accepts the escort for
the afternoon of a young American who is staying at the same hotel; she
likes to walk in the Pincian, so she takes a stroll there one afternoon
with a certain liquid-eyed Roman. The woman who does a thing for the
sake of the thing in itself is always suspected by society, and the
American colony, which professes the mellow conventions of Europe with
all its own national crudity, accuses her of vulgarity and even
lightness. They talk so bitterly that when the young American, who is
half in love with Daisy, finds her viewing the Colosseum by moonlight
with the Roman, he leaps to the conclusion that she is a disreputable
woman. Why he does so is not quite clear, since surely it is the
essential thing about a disreputable woman that her evenings are not
free for visits to the Colosseum. Poor Daisy takes in part of his
meaning and, saying in a little strange voice, "I don't care whether I
get Roman fever or not!" goes back to her hotel and dies of malaria. And
the young American, "staring at the raw protuberance among the April
daisies" in the Protestant cemetery, learns from the Roman's lips that
Daisy was "most innocent."
It is a lyric whose beauty may be measured by the attention which, in
spite of its tragedy, it everywhere provoked. It was interesting to note
how often in the obituary notices of Mr James it was said that he had
never attained popularity, for it shows how soon London forgets its
gifts of fame. From 1875 to 1885 (to put it roughly) all England and
America were as captivated by the clear beauty of Mr James' work as in
the nineties they were hypnotised by the bright-coloured beauty of Mr
Kipling's art. On London staircases everyone turned to look at the
American with the long, silky, black beard which, I am told by one who
met him then, gave him the appearance of "an Elizabethan sea captain."
But for all the exquisiteness of _Daisy Miller_ there were discernible
in it certain black lines which, like the dark veining in a crocus that
foretells its decay, showed that this was a loveliness which was in the
very act of passing. The young American might have been so worked upon
by his friends that he could readily believe his Daisy a light woman,
but he need not have manifested his acceptance of this belief by being
grossly rude to her and by reflecting that if "after Daisy's return
there had been an exchange of jokes between the porter and the
cab-driver ... it had ceased to be a matter of serious regret to him
that the little American flirt should be 'talked about' by low-minded
menials." When one remembers the grave courtesy with which Christopher
Newman treated Mlle Noemie Nioche, the little French drab who called
herself _un esprit libre_, it is plain that we are no longer dealing
with the same Mr James. The Mr James we are to deal with henceforth had
ceased to be an American and had lost his native reactions to emotional
stimuli. He was becoming a European and for several years to come was to
spend his time slowly mastering its conventions; which means that he was
learning a new emotional language.
