"Kitty."
"Yes, Chris." She was sweet and obedient and alert.
"I know my conduct must seem to you perversely insulting,"--behind him
the search-light wheeled while he gripped the sides of the window,--"but
if I do not see Margaret Allington I shall die."
She raised her hands to her jewels, and pressed the cool globes of her
pearls into her flesh. "She lives near here," she said easily. "I will
send the car down for her to-morrow. You shall see as much of her as you
like."
His arms fell to his sides.
"Thank you," he muttered; "you're all being so kind--" He disengaged
himself into the darkness.
I was amazed at Kitty's beautiful act and more amazed to find that it
had made her face ugly. Her eyes snapped as they met mine.
"That dowd!" she said, keeping her voice low, so that he might not hear
it as he passed to and fro before the window. "That dowd!"
This sudden abandonment of beauty and amiability meant so much in our
Kitty, whose law of life is grace, that I went over and kissed her.
"Dear, you're taking things all the wrong way," I said. "Chris is ill--"
"He's well enough to remember her all right," she replied unanswerably.
Her silver shoe tapped the floor; she pinched her lips for some moments.
"After all, I suppose I can sit down to it. Other women do. Teddy Rex
keeps a Gaiety girl, and Mrs. Rex has to grin and bear it." She shrugged
in answer to my silence. "What else is it, do you think? It means that
Chris is a man like other men. But I did think that bad women were
pretty. I suppose he's had so much to do with pretty ones that a plain
one's a change."
"Kitty! Kitty! how can you!"
But her little pink mouth went on manufacturing malice.
"This is all a blind," she said at the end of an unpardonable sentence.
"He's pretending."
I, who had felt his agony all the evening like a wound in my own body,
was past speech then, and I did not care what I did to stop her. I
gripped her small shoulders with my large hands, and shook her till her
jewels rattled and she scratched my fingers and gasped for breath. But I
did not mind so long as she was silent.
Chris spoke from the darkness.
"Jenny!" I let her go. He came in and stood over us, running his hand
through his hair unhappily. "Let's all be decent to each other," he said
heavily. "It's all such a muddle, and it's so rotten for all of us--"
Kitty shook herself neat and stood up.
"Why don't you say, 'Jenny, you mustn't be rude to visitors'? It's how
you feel, I know." She gathered up her needlework. "I'm going to bed.
It's been a horrid night."
She spoke so pathetically, like a child who hasn't enjoyed a party as
much as it had thought it would, that both of us felt a stir of
tenderness toward her as she left the room. We smiled sadly at each
other as we sat down by the fire, and I perceived that, perhaps because
I was flushed and looked younger, he felt more intimate with me than he
had yet done since his return. Indeed, in the warm, friendly silence
that followed he was like a patient when tiring visitors have gone and
he is left alone with his trusted nurse; smiled under drooped lids and
then paid me the high compliment of disregard. His limbs relaxed, he
sank back into his chair. I watched him vigilantly, and was ready at
that moment when thought intruded into his drowsings and his face began
to twitch. I asked:
