Well, one sounded the bell that hung on a post, and presently Margaret
in a white dress would come out of the porch and would walk to the stone
steps down to the river. Invariably, as she passed the walnut-tree that
overhung the path, she would pick a leaf, crush it, and sniff the sweet
scent; and as she came near the steps she would shade her eyes and peer
across the water. "She is a little near-sighted; you can't imagine how
sweet it makes her look," Chris explained. (I did not say that I had
seen her, for, indeed, this Margaret I had never seen.) A sudden serene
gravity would show that she had seen one, and she would get into the
four-foot punt that was used as a ferry and bring it over very slowly,
with rather stiff movements of her long arms, to exactly the right
place. When she had got the punt up on the gravel her serious brow would
relax, and she would smile at one and shake hands and say something
friendly, like, "Father thought you'd be over this afternoon, it being
so fine; so he's saved some duck's eggs for tea."
And then one took the pole from her and brought her back to the island,
though probably one did not mount the steps to the lawn for a long time.
It was so good to sit in the punt by the landing-stage while Margaret
dabbled her hands in the black waters and forgot her shyness as one
talked. "She's such good company. She's got an accurate mind that
would have made her a good engineer, but when she picks up facts she
kind of gives them a motherly hug. She's charity and love itself."
(Again I did not say that I had seen her.) If people drifted in to tea,
one had to talk to her while she cut the bread and butter and the
sandwiches in the kitchen, but in this year of floods few visitors cared
to try the hard rowing below Bray Lock.
[Illustration: She would get into the four-foot punt that was used as a
ferry and bring it over very slowly]
So usually one sat down there in the boat, talking with a sense of
leisure, as though one had all the rest of one's life in which to carry
on this conversation, and noting how the reflected ripple of the water
made a bright, vibrant, mark upon her throat, and other effects of the
scene upon her beauty, until the afternoon grew drowsy, and she said,
"Father will be wanting his tea." And they would go up and find old
Allington, in white ducks, standing in the fringe of long grasses and
cow-parsley on the other edge of the island, looking to his poultry or
his rabbits. He was a little man, with a tuft of copper-colored hair
rising from the middle of his forehead like a clown's curl, who shook
hands hard and explained very soon that he was a rough diamond.
