He was kindly and indulgent. "What have you heard?"
Ellen had, as her mother used to say, a great notion of politics. "Why,
that you're going to stand for Parliament."
"That's true enough," he said, swelling a little.
"Could anything be finer?" she breathed. "What are you going to do?"
"I'll have to contest two-three hopeless seats. Then they'll give me
something safe."
"But what will you do?"
He didn't follow.
"What'll you do after that?" She towered above him, her cheeks flushed
with intellectual passion. "In Parliament, I mean. There's so much to
do. Will it be housing? If it was me it would be housing. But what are
you going to do?"
"I'll sit as a Liberal," he said, with an air of quiet competence.
"We've always been Liberals."
"Ach! _Liberal!_" she said, with the spirit of one who had cried, "Keep
the Liberal out!" at a Leith polling-booth and had been haled backwards
by the hair from the person of Mr. Winston Churchill. Mr. Philip laughed
again and felt a kind of glow. He never could get over a feeling that to
discover a woman excited about an intellectual thing was like coming on
her bathing; her cast-off femininity affected him as a heap of her
clothes on the beach might have done. But the flash in her eyes died to
the homelier fires of a more personal quarrel. "Is yon Mrs. Powell's
heavy feet coming up the stair?" she enquired.
"It is so. I asked her to do a chop for me, so that I won't need to dine
on the train...."
"Mercy me! We'll see the fine cook she is!" She ran out to the landing
(she had never known he was so nice). Mr. Philip found that her absence
acted curiously as a relief to an excitement that was beginning to buzz
in his head. Then she came back with the tray, her cheeks bright and her
mouth pursed, for she and the caretaker had been sandpapering each
other's temperaments with a few words. "Be thankful she thought to boil
a potato. No greens. And I had to ask for a bit bread. And the reason's
not far to seek. She's had a drop again. It staggers me how your father,
who's so particular with the rest of us, stands such a body in the
place."
He did not answer her. The moment had become one of pure enjoyment.
There was no sense of strain in his appreciation of her while she was
putting down the tray, spreading out the plates, and doing things that
were all directed to giving him comfort. Their relationship felt
absolutely right.
"Will you have one of the bottles of Burgundy your father keeps for when
he lunches in?" she said.
"I was just thinking I would," he answered, and went into his father's
room. As he stooped before the cupboard her voice reached him,
fortuitously uplifted in "The Flowers of the Forest are a' wede away."
Now how did she look when she sang? It improved some people. He knelt
for a minute in front of the dusty cupboard, frowning fiercely at the
bottles because it struck him that she would stop singing when he went
back, and he could think of no way of asking her to go on that would not
be, as he put it, _infra dig_. And sure enough, when he entered the room
a shy silence fell on her, which she broke by saying, "If you've not got
the corkscrew there's one on my pocket-knife." He used it, telling
himself that it spared turning on the gas again in the other room, and
she stood behind him murmuring, "Yon's not a bad knife. Four blades and
a thing that takes stones out of a horse's hoof...."
