I had finished the statement of our sad case, and I saw that though she
had not moved, clasping her knees in a set, hideous attitude, the tears
were rolling down her cheeks.
"Oh, don't! Oh, don't!" I exclaimed, standing up. Her tear-stained
immobility touched the heart. "He's not so bad; he'll get quite well."
"I know, I know," she said miserably. "I don't believe that anything bad
could be allowed to happen to Chris for long. And I'm sure," she said
kindly, "you're looking after him beautifully. But when a thing you had
thought had ended fifteen years ago starts all over again, and you're
very tired--" She drew a hand across her tears, her damp skin, her
rough, bagging overall. "I'm hot. I've been baking. You can't get a girl
nowadays that understands the baking." Her gaze became remote and
tender, and she said in a manner that was at once argumentative and
narrative, as though she were telling the whole story to a neighbor over
the garden wall: "I suppose I ought to say that he isn't right in his
head, and that I'm married, so we'd better not meet; but, oh," she
cried, and I felt as though, after much fumbling with damp matches and
many doubts as to whether there was any oil in the wick, I had lit the
lamp at last, "I want to see him so! It's wrong, I know it's wrong, but
I am so glad Chris wants to see me, too!"
"You'll do him good." I found myself raising my voice to the pitch she
had suddenly attained as though to keep her at it. "Come now!"
She dipped suddenly to compassion.
"But the young lady?" she asked timidly. "She was upset the last time.
I've often wondered if I did right in going. Even if Chris has
forgotten, he'll want to do what's right. He couldn't bear to hurt her."
"That's true," I said. "You do know our Chris. He watches her out of the
corner of his eye, even when he's feeling at his worst, to see she isn't
wincing. But she sent me here to-day."
"Oh!" cried Margaret, glowing, "she must have a lovely nature!"
I lost suddenly the thread of the conversation. I could not talk about
Kitty. She appeared to me at that moment a faceless figure with
flounces, just as most of the servants at Baldry Court appear to me as
faceless figures with caps and aprons. There were only two real people
in the world, Chris and this woman whose personality was sounding
through her squalor like a beautiful voice singing in a darkened room,
and I was absorbed in a mental vision of them. You know how the saints
and the prophets are depicted in the steel engravings in old Bibles; so
they were standing, in flowing white robes on rocks against a
pitch-black sky, a strong light beating on their eyes upturned in
ecstasy and their hand outstretched to receive the spiritual blessing of
which the fierce rays were an emanation. Into that rapt silence I
desired to break, and I whispered irrelevantly, "Oh, nothing, nothing is
too good for Chris!" while I said to myself, "If she really were like
that, solemn and beatified!" and my eyes returned to look despairingly
on her ugliness. But she really was like that. She had responded to my
irrelevant murmur of adoration by just such a solemn and beatified
appearance as I had imagined. Her grave eyes were upturned, her worn
hands lay palm upward on her knees, as though to receive the love of
which her radiance was an emanation. And then, at a sound in the
kitchen, she snatched my exaltation from me by suddenly turning dull.
