"You can't remember her at all?"
"Oh, yes," he said, without raising his eyelids, "in a sense. I know how
she bows when you meet her in the street, how she dresses when she goes
to church. I know her as one knows a woman staying in the same hotel,
just like that."
"It's a pity you can't remember Kitty. All that a wife should be she's
been to you."
He sat forward, warming his palms at the blaze and hunching his
shoulders as though there were a draft. His silence compelled me to look
at him, and I found his eyes, cold and incredulous and frightened, on
me.
"Jenny, is this true?"
"That Kitty's been a good wife?"
"That Kitty is my wife, that I am old, that"--he waved a hand at the
altered room--"all this."
"It is all true. She is your wife, and this place is changed, and it's
better and jollier in all sorts of ways, believe me, and fifteen years
have passed. Why, Chris, can't you see that I have grown old?" My vanity
could hardly endure his slow stare, but I kept my fingers clasped on my
lap. "You see?"
He turned away with an assenting mutter; but I saw that deep down in
him, not to be moved by any material proof, his spirit was incredulous.
"Tell me what seems real to you," I begged. "Chris, be a pal. I'll never
tell."
"M-m-m," he said. His elbows were on his knees, and his hands stroked
his thick tarnished hair. I could not see his face, but I knew that his
skin was red and that his gray eyes were wet and bright. Then suddenly
he lifted his chin and laughed, like a happy swimmer breaking through a
wave that has swept him far inshore. He glowed with a radiance that
illuminated the moment till my blood tingled and I began to rub my hands
together and laugh, too. "Why, Monkey Island's real. But you don't know
old Monkey. Let me tell you."
CHAPTER III
Chris told the story lingeringly, in loving detail. From Uncle Ambrose's
gates, it seems, one took the path across the meadow where Whiston's
cows are put to graze, passed through the second stile--the one between
the two big alders--into a long straight road that ran across the flat
lands to Bray. After a mile or so there branched from it a private road
that followed a line of noble poplars down to the ferry. Between two of
them--he described it meticulously, as though it were of immense
significance--there stood a white hawthorn. In front were the
dark-green, glassy waters of an unvisited back-water, and beyond them a
bright lawn set with many walnut-trees and a few great chestnuts, well
lighted with their candles, and to the left of that a low, white house
with a green dome rising in its middle, and a veranda with a roof of
hammered iron that had gone verdigris-color with age and the Thames
weather. This was the Monkey Island Inn. The third Duke of Marlborough
had built it for a "folly," and perching there with nothing but a line
of walnut-trees and a fringe of lawn between it and the fast, full,
shining Thames, it had an eighteenth-century grace and silliness.
