     I stared. "Chris," I said, "I know the war is making some of us
     very lax, and I can only ascribe to that the shamelessness with
     which you admit the existence of a long-standing intrigue; but when
     it comes to asking me to go over to England and fetch the woman--"
     He interrupted me with a sneer that we parsons are inveterately
     eighteenth century and have our minds perpetually inflamed by
     visions of squires' sons seducing country wenches, and declared
     that he meant to marry this Margaret Allington. "Oh, indeed!" I
     said. "And may I ask what Kitty says to this arrangement?" "Who the
     devil is Kitty?" he asked blankly. "Kitty is your wife," I said
     quietly, but firmly. He sat up and shouted: "I haven't got a wife!
     Has some woman been turning up with a cock-and-bull story of being
     my wife? Because it's the damnedest lie!"
     I determined to settle the matter by sharp, common-sense handling.
     "Chris," I said, "you have evidently lost your memory. You were
     married to Kitty Ellis at St. George's, Hanover Square, on the
     third, or it may have been the fourth"--you know my wretched memory
     for dates--"of February, in 1906." He turned very pale and asked
     what year this was. "1916," I told him. He fell back in a fainting
     condition. The nurse came, and said I had done it all right this
     time, so she at least seemed to have known that he required a rude
     awakening, although the doctor, a very nice man, Winchester and
     New, told me he had known nothing of Chris's delusions.
     An hour later I was called back into the room. Chris was looking at
     himself in a hand-mirror, which he threw on the floor as I entered.
     "You are right," he said; "I'm not twenty-one, but thirty-six." He
     said he felt lonely and afraid, and that I must bring Margaret
     Allington to him at once or he would die. Suddenly he stopped
     raving and asked, "Is father all right?" I prayed for guidance, and
     answered, "Your father passed away twelve years ago." He said,
     "Good God! can't you say he _died_," and he turned over and lay
     with his back to me. I have never before seen a strong man weep,
     and it is indeed a terrible sight. He moaned a lot, and began to
     call for this Margaret. Then he turned over again and said, "Now
     tell us all about this Kitty that I've married." I told him she was
     a beautiful little woman, and mentioned that she had a charming and
     cultivated soprano voice. He said very fractiously: "I don't like
     little women, and I hate anybody, male or female, who sings. O God,
     I don't like this Kitty. Take her away!" And then he began to rave
     again about this woman. He said that he was consumed with desire
     for her and that he would never rest until he once more held her in
     his arms. I had no suspicion that Chris had this side to his
     nature, and it was almost a relief when he fainted again.
