"So peace reigned, and as I settled the tray, I heard cook say in
her balmiest tone, for I suspect the cake and tea lay heavy on her
conscience, 'The mistress is very poorly, and Miss takes nice care
of her, the dear.'
"All blarney, but it pleased me and made me remember how feeble poor
Mamma was, and how little I really did. So I wept a repentant weep
as I toiled upstairs with my tea and toast, and found Mamma all
ready for them, and so pleased to find things going well. I saw by
that what a relief it would be to her if I did it oftener, as I
ought, and as I resolved that I would.
"I didn't say anything, but I kept on doing whatever came along, and
before I knew it ever so many duties slipped out of Mamma's hands
into mine, and seemed to belong to me. I don't mean that I liked
them, and didn't grumble to myself; I did, and felt regularly
crushed and injured sometimes when I wanted to go and have my own
fun. Duty is right, but it isn't easy, and the only comfort about it
is a sort of quiet feeling you get after a while, and a strong
feeling, as if you'd found something to hold on to and keep you
steady. I can't express it, but you know?" And Maggie looked
wistfully at the other faces, some of which answered her with a
quick flash of sympathy, and some only wore a puzzled yet respectful
expression, as if they felt they ought to know, but did not.
"I need not tire you with all my humdrum doings," continued Maggie.
"I made no plans, but just said each day, 'I'll take what comes,
and try to be cheerful and contented.' So I looked after the
children, and that left Maria more time to sew and help round. I did
errands, and went to market, and saw that Papa had his meals
comfortably when Mamma was not able to come down. I made calls for
her, and received visitors, and soon went on as if I were the lady
of the house, not 'a chit of a girl,' as Cousin Tom used to call me.
"The best of all were the cosey talks we had in the twilight, Mamma
and I, when she was rested, and all the day's worry was over, and we
were waiting for Papa. Now, when he came, I didn't have to go away,
for they wanted to ask and tell me things, and consult about
affairs, and make me feel that I was really the eldest daughter. Oh,
it was just lovely to sit between them and know that they needed me,
and loved to have me with them! That made up for the hard and
disagreeable things, and not long ago I got my reward. Mamma is
better, and I was rejoicing over it, when she said,' Yes, I really
am mending now, and hope soon to be able to relieve my good girl.
But I want to tell you, dear, that when I was most discouraged my
greatest comfort was, that if I had to leave my poor babies they
would find such a faithful little mother in you.'
