"I did feel solemn, for if Johnny could not go there he would be
badly off. Fortunately he was ten, and dear Mrs. Russell helped me,
and those good people took him in though they were crowded. 'We
cannot turn one away,' said kind Mr. Parpatharges.
"So there my boy is, as happy as a king with his little mates,
learning all sorts of useful lessons and pretty plays. He models
nicely in clay. Here is one of his little works. Could you do as
well without eyes?" and Lizzie proudly produced a very one-sided
pear with a long straw for a stem. "I don't expect he will ever be a
sculptor, but I hope he will do something with music he loves it so,
and is already piping away on a fife very cleverly. Whatever his
gift may prove, if he lives, he will be taught to be a useful,
independent man, not a helpless burden, nor an unhappy creature
sitting alone in the dark. I feel very happy about my lads, and am
surprised to find how well I get on with them. I shall look up some
more next year, for I really think I have quite a gift that way,
though you wouldn't expect it, as I have no brothers, and always had
a fancy boys were little imps."
The girls were much amused at Lizzie's discovery of her own powers,
for she was a stately damsel, who never indulged in romps, but lived
for her music. Now it was evident that she had found the key to
unlock childish hearts, and was learning to use it, quite
unconscious that the sweet voice she valued so highly was much
improved by the tender tones singing lullabies gave it. The fat pear
was passed round like refreshments, receiving much praise and no
harsh criticism; and when it was safely returned to its proud
possessor, Ida began her tale in a lively tone.
"I waited for MY chore, and it came tumbling down our basement steps
one rainy day in the shape of a large dilapidated umbrella with a
pair of small boots below it. A mild howl made me run to open the
door, for I was at lunch in the dining-room, all alone, and rather
blue because I couldn't go over to see Ella. A very small girl lay
with her head in a puddle at the foot of the steps, the boots waving
in the air, and the umbrella brooding over her like a draggled green
bird.
"'Are you hurt, child?' said I.
"'No, I thank you, ma'am,' said the mite quite calmly, as she sat up
and settled a woman's shabby black hat on her head.
"'Did you come begging?' I asked.
"'No, ma'am, I came for some things Mrs. Grover's got for us. She
told me to. I don't beg.' And up rose the sopping thing with great
dignity.
"So I asked her to sit down, and ran up to call Mrs. Grover. She was
busy with Grandpa just then, and when I went back to my lunch there
sat my lady with her arms folded, water dripping out of the toes of
her old boots as they hung down from the high chair, and the biggest
blue eyes I ever saw fixed upon the cake and oranges on the table. I
gave her a piece, and she sighed with rapture, but only picked at it
till I asked if she didn't like it.
