"For Heaven's sake, Dora, put away that mess! The Ellenboroughs are
directly opposite, watching everything you do.  Eat that omelet, or
anything respectable, unless you want me to die of mortification."
Debby dropped her spoon, and, hastily helping herself from the dish her
aunt pushed toward her, consumed the leathery compound with as much
grace as she could assume, though unable to repress a laugh at Aunt
Pen's disturbed countenance. There was a slight lull in the clatter,
and the blithe sound caused several heads to turn toward the quarter
whence it came, for it was as unexpected and pleasant a sound as a
bobolink's song in a cage of shrill-voiced canaries.
"She's a jolly little thing and powerful pretty, so deuse take me if I
don't make up to the old lady and find out who the girl is.  I've been
introduced to Mrs. Carroll at our house: but I suppose she won't
remember me till I remind her."
The "deuse" declining to accept of his repeated offers (probably
because there was still too much honor and honesty in the boy,) young
Leavenworth sought out Mrs. Carroll on the Piazza, as she and Debby
were strolling there an hour later.
"Joe Leavenworth, my dear, from one of our first families,--very
wealthy,--fine match,--pray, be civil,--smooth your hair, hold back
your shoulders, and put down your parasol," murmured Aunt Pen, as the
gentleman approached with as much pleasure in his countenance as it was
consistent with manly dignity to express upon meeting two of the
inferior race.
"My niece, Miss Dora Wilder.  This is her first season at the beach,
and we must endeavor to make it pleasant for her, or she will be
getting homesick and running away to mamma," said Aunt Pen, in her
society-tone, after she had returned his greeting, and perpetrated a
polite fiction, by declaring that she remembered him perfectly, for he
was the image of his father.
Mr. Leavenworth brought the heels of his varnished boots together with
a click, and executed the latest bow imported, then stuck his glass in
his eye and stared till it fell out, (the glass, not the eye,) upon
which he fell into step with them, remarking,--
"I shall be most happy to show the lions: they are deused tame ones, so
you needn't be alarmed. Miss Wilder."
Debby was good-natured enough to laugh; and, elated with that success,
he proceeded to pour forth his stores of wit and learning in true
collegian style, quite unconscious that the "jolly little thing" was
looking him through and through with the smiling eyes that were
producing such pleasurable sensations under the mosaic studs.  They
strolled toward the beach, and, meeting an old acquaintance, Aunt Pen
fell behind, and beamed upon the young pair as if her prophetic eye
even at this early stage beheld them walking altarward in a proper
state of blond white vest and bridal awkwardness.
"Can you skip a stone, Mr. Leavenworth? asked Debby, possessed with a
mischievous desire to shock the piece of elegance at her side.
