"Go, my dear, by all means. I shall be writing; and you will be lonely
if you stay.  But I must see my girls; for I caught glimpses of certain
surprising phantoms flitting by the door."
Nan led the way, and the two pyramids revolved before him with the
rapidity of lay-figures, much to the good man's edification: for with
his fatherly pleasure there was mingled much mild wonderment at the
amplitude of array.
"Yes, I see my geese are really swans, though there is such a cloud
between us that I feel a long way off, and hardly know them.  But this
little daughter is always available, always my 'cricket on the hearth.'"
As he spoke, her father drew Nan closer, kissed her tranquil face, and
smiled content.
"Well, if ever I see picters, I see 'em now, and I declare to goodness
it's as interestin' as playactin', every bit.  Miss Di with all them
boughs in her head, looks like the Queen of Sheby, when she went
a-visitin' What's-his-name; and if Miss Laura ain't as sweet as a
lally-barster figger, I should like to know what is."
In her enthusiasm, Sally gambolled about the girls, flourishing her
milk-pan like a modern Miriam about to sound her timbrel for excess of
joy.
Laughing merrily, the two Mont Blancs bestowed themselves in the family
ark, Nan hopped up beside Patrick, and Solon, roused from his lawful
slumbers, morosely trundled them away. But, looking backward with a
last "Good-night!" Nan saw her father still standing at the door with
smiling countenance, and the moonlight falling like a benediction on
his silver hair.
"Betsey shall go up the hill with you, my dear, and here's a basket of
eggs for your father.  Give him my love, and be sure you let me know
the next time he is poorly," Mrs. Lord said, when her guest rose to
depart, after an hour of pleasant chat.
But Nan never got the gift; for, to her great dismay, her hostess
dropped the basket with a crash, and flew across the room to meet a
tall shape pausing in the shadow of the door.  There was no need to ask
who the new-comer was; for, even in his mother's arms, John looked over
her shoulder with an eager nod to Nan, who stood among the ruins with
never a sign of weariness in her face, nor the memory of a care at her
heart.--for they all went out when John came in.
"Now tell us how and why and when you came. Take off your coat, my
dear!  And here are the old slippers.  Why didn't you let us know you
were coming so soon?  How have you been? and what makes you so late
to-night?  Betsey, you needn't put on your bonnet.  And--oh, my dear
boy, have you been to supper yet?"
Mrs. Lord was a quiet soul, and her flood of questions was purred
softly in her son's ear; for, being a woman, she must talk, and, being
a mother, must pet the one delight of her life, and make a little
festival when the lord of the manor came home. A whole drove of fatted
calves were metaphorically killed, and a banquet appeared with speed.
