Then they all streamed after him along the garden-path, with the
endless messages and warnings girls are so prone to give; and the young
man, with a great softness at his heart, went away, as many another
John has gone, feeling better for the companionship of innocent
maidenhood, and stronger to wrestle with temptation, to wait and hope
and work.
"Let's throw a shoe after him for luck, as dear old 'Mrs.  Gummage' did
after 'David' and the 'willin' Barkis!' Quick, Nan! you always have old
shoes on; toss one, and shout, 'Good luck!'" cried Di, with one of her
eccentric inspirations.
Nan tore off her shoe, and threw it far along the dusty road, with a
sudden longing to become that auspicious article of apparel, that the
omen might not fail.
Looking backward from the hill-top, John answered the meek shout
cheerily, and took in the group with a lingering glance: Laura in the
shadow of the elms, Di perched on the fence, and Nan leaning far over
the gate with her hand above her eyes and the sunshine touching her
brown hair with gold.  He waved his hat and turned away; but the music
seemed to die out of the blackbird's song, and in all the summer
landscape his eyes saw nothing but the little figure at the gate.
"Bless and save us! here's a flock of people coming; my hair is in a
toss, and Nan's without her shoe; run! fly, girls! or the Philistines
will be upon us!" cried Di, tumbling off her perch in sudden alarm.
Three agitated young ladies, with flying draperies and countenances of
mingled mirth and dismay, might have been seen precipitating themselves
into a respectable mansion with unbecoming haste; but the squirrels
were the only witnesses of this "vision of sudden flight," and, being
used to ground-and-lofty tumbling, didn't mind it.
When the pedestrians passed, the door was decorously closed, and no one
visible but a young man, who snatched something out of the road, and
marched away again, whistling with more vigor of tone than accuracy of
tune, "Only that, and nothing more."
HOW IT WAS FOUND.
Summer ripened into autumn, and something fairer than
  "Sweet-peas and mignonette
  In Annie's garden grew."
Her nature was the counterpart of the hill-side grove, where as a child
she had read her fairy tales, and now as a woman turned the first pages
of a more wondrous legend still. Lifted above the many-gabled roof, yet
not cut off from the echo of human speech, the little grove seemed a
green sanctuary, fringed about with violets, and full of summer melody
and bloom.  Gentle creatures haunted it, and there was none to make
afraid; wood-pigeons cooed and crickets chirped their shrill
roundelays, anemones and lady-ferns looked up from the moss that kissed
the wanderer's feet. Warm airs were all afloat, full of vernal odors
for the grateful sense, silvery birches shimmered like spirits of the
wood, larches gave their green tassels to the wind, and pines made airy
music sweet and solemn, as they stood looking heavenward through veils
of summer sunshine or shrouds of wintry snow.
