But Rose stuck there, and grew so red, her uncle guessed what that
trouble was.
"I don't think I _can_ tell this one. It wouldn't be polite, and I feel
pretty sure that it isn't going to be a trouble any more."
As she blushed and stammered over these words, Dr. Alec turned his eyes
away to the distant sea, and said so seriously, so tenderly, that she
felt every word and long remembered them,--
"My child, I don't expect you to love and trust me all at once, but I do
want you to believe that I shall give my whole heart to this new duty;
and if I make mistakes, as I probably shall, no one will grieve over
them more bitterly than I. It is my fault that I am a stranger to you,
when I want to be your best friend. That is one of my mistakes, and I
never repented it more deeply than I do now. Your father and I had a
trouble once, and I thought I never could forgive him; so I kept away
for years. Thank God, we made it all up the last time I saw him, and he
told me then, that if he was forced to leave her he should bequeath his
little girl to me as a token of his love. I can't fill his place, but I
shall try to be a father to her; and if she learns to love me half as
well as she did the good one she has lost, I shall be a proud and happy
man. Will she believe this and try?"
Something in Uncle Alec's face touched Rose to the heart, and when he
held out his hand with that anxious, troubled look in his eyes, she was
moved to put up her innocent lips and seal the contract with a confiding
kiss. The strong arm held her close a minute, and she felt the broad
chest heave once as if with a great sigh of relief; but not a word was
spoken till a tap at the door made both start.
Rose popped her head through the window to say "come in," while Dr. Alec
hastily rubbed the sleeve of his jacket across his eyes and began to
whistle again.
Phebe appeared with a cup of coffee.
"Debby told me to bring this and help you get up," she said, opening her
black eyes wide, as if she wondered how on earth "the sailor man" got
there.
"I'm all dressed, so I don't need any help. I hope that is good and
strong," added Rose, eying the steaming cup with an eager look.
But she did not get it, for a brown hand took possession of it as her
uncle said quickly,--
"Hold hard, my lass, and let me overhaul that dose before you take it.
Do you drink all this strong coffee every morning, Rose?"
"Yes, sir, and I like it. Auntie says it 'tones' me up, and I always
feel better after it."
