For thirty years she had lived on, fading slowly, but cheerful, busy,
and full of interest in all that went on in the family; especially the
joys and sorrows of the young girls growing up about her, and to them
she was adviser, confidante, and friend in all their tender trials and
delights. A truly beautiful old maiden, with her silvery hair, tranquil
face, and an atmosphere of repose about her that soothed whoever came to
her!
Aunt Plenty was utterly dissimilar, being a stout, brisk old lady, with
a sharp eye, a lively tongue, and a face like a winter-apple. Always
trotting, chatting, and bustling, she was a regular Martha, cumbered
with the cares of this world and quite happy in them.
Rose was right; and while she softly read psalms to Aunt Peace, the
other ladies were talking about her little self in the frankest manner.
"Well, Alec, how do you like your ward?" began Aunt Jane, as they all
settled down, and Uncle Mac deposited himself in a corner to finish his
doze.
"I should like her better if I could have begun at the beginning, and so
got a fair start. Poor George led such a solitary life that the child
has suffered in many ways, and since he died she has been going on worse
than ever, judging from the state I find her in."
"My dear boy, we did what we thought best while waiting for you to wind
up your affairs and get home. I always told George he was wrong to bring
her up as he did; but he never took my advice and now here we are with
this poor dear child upon our hands. I, for one, freely confess that I
don't know what to do with her any more than if she was one of those
strange, outlandish birds you used to bring home from foreign parts."
And Aunt Plenty gave a perplexed shake of the head which caused great
commotion among the stiff loops of purple ribbon that bristled all over
her cap like crocus buds.
"If _my_ advice had been taken, she would have remained at the excellent
school where I placed her. But our aunt thought best to remove her
because she complained, and she has been dawdling about ever since she
came. A most ruinous state of things for a morbid, spoilt girl like
Rose," said Mrs. Jane, severely.
She had never forgiven the old ladies for yielding to Rose's pathetic
petition that she might wait her guardian's arrival before beginning
another term at the school, which was a regular Blimber hot-bed, and
turned out many a feminine Toots.
"_I_ never thought it the proper school for a child in good
circumstances,--an heiress, in fact, as Rose is. It is all very well for
girls who are to get their own living by teaching, and that sort of
thing; but all _she_ needs is a year or two at a fashionable
finishing-school, so that at eighteen she can come out with _eclat_,"
put in Aunt Clara, who had been a beauty and a belle, and was still a
handsome woman.
