"That's impossible! Put on your jacket, Rose. Don't tire her out with
antics, Alec. Yes, sister, I'm coming!" and the cabbage vanished
suddenly.
The first milking lesson was a droll one; but after several scares and
many vain attempts, Rose at last managed to fill her cup, while Ben held
Clover's tail so that it could not flap, and Dr. Alec kept her from
turning to stare at the new milk-maid, who objected to both these
proceedings very much.
"You look chilly in spite of all this laughing. Take a smart run round
the garden and get up a glow," said the doctor, as they left the barn.
"I'm too old for running, uncle; Miss Power said it was not lady-like
for girls in their teens," answered Rose primly.
"I take the liberty of differing from Madame Prunes and Prisms, and, as
your physician, I _order_ you to run. Off with you!" said Uncle Alec,
with a look and a gesture that made Rose scurry away as fast as she
could go.
Anxious to please him, she raced round the beds till she came back to
the porch where he stood, and, dropping down upon the steps, she sat
panting, with cheeks as rosy as the rigolette on her shoulders.
"Very well done, child; I see you have not lost the use of your limbs
though you _are_ in your teens. That belt is too tight; unfasten it,
then you can take a long breath without panting so."
"It isn't tight, sir; I can breathe perfectly well," began Rose, trying
to compose herself.
Her uncle's only answer was to lift her up and unhook the new belt of
which she was so proud. The moment the clasp was open the belt flew
apart several inches, for it was impossible to restrain the involuntary
sigh of relief that flatly contradicted her words.
"Why, I didn't know it was tight! it didn't feel so a bit. Of course it
would open if I puff like this, but I never do, because I hardly ever
run," explained Rose, rather discomfited by this discovery.
"I see you don't half fill your lungs, and so you can wear this absurd
thing without feeling it. The idea of cramping a tender little waist in
a stiff band of leather and steel just when it ought to be growing,"
said Dr. Alec, surveying the belt with great disfavor as he put the
clasp forward several holes, to Rose's secret dismay, for she was proud
of her slender figure, and daily rejoiced that she wasn't as stout as
Luly Miller, a former schoolmate, who vainly tried to repress her
plumpness.
"It will fall off if it is so loose," she said anxiously, as she stood
watching him pull her precious belt about.
"Not if you keep taking long breaths to hold it on. That is what I want
you to do, and when you have filled this out we will go on enlarging it
till your waist is more like that of Hebe, goddess of health, and less
like that of a fashion-plate,--the ugliest thing imaginable."
