The sun was shining, and Rose opened her window to let in the soft May
air fresh from the sea. As she leaned over her little balcony, watching
an early bird get the worm, and wondering how she should like Uncle
Alec, she saw a man leap the garden wall and come whistling up the path.
At first she thought it was some trespasser, but a second look showed
her that it was her uncle returning from an early dip into the sea. She
had hardly dared to look at him the night before, because whenever she
tried to do so she always found a pair of keen blue eyes looking at her.
Now she could take a good stare at him as he lingered along, looking
about him as if glad to see the old place again.
A brown, breezy man, in a blue jacket, with no hat on the curly head
which he shook now and then like a water-dog; broad-shouldered, alert in
his motions, and with a general air of strength and stability about him
which pleased Rose, though she could not explain the feeling of comfort
it gave her. She had just said to herself, with a sense of relief, "I
guess I _shall_ like him, though he looks as if he made people mind,"
when he lifted his eyes to examine the budding horse-chestnut overhead,
and saw the eager face peering down at him. He waved his hand to her,
nodded, and called out in a bluff, cheery voice,--
"You are on deck early, little niece."
"I got up to see if you had really come, uncle."
"Did you? Well, come down here and make sure of it."
"I'm not allowed to go out before breakfast, sir."
"Oh, indeed!" with a shrug. "Then I'll come aboard and salute," he
added; and, to Rose's great amazement, Uncle Alec went up one of the
pillars of the back piazza hand over hand, stepped across the roof, and
swung himself into her balcony, saying, as he landed on the wide
balustrade: "Have you any doubts about me now, ma'am?"
Rose was so taken aback, she could only answer with a smile as she went
to meet him.
"How does my girl do this morning?" he asked, taking the little cold
hand she gave him in both his big warm ones.
"Pretty well, thank you, sir."
"Ah, but it should be _very well_. Why isn't it?"
"I always wake up with a headache, and feel tired."
"Don't you sleep well?"
"I lie awake a long time, and then I dream, and my sleep does not seem
to rest me much."
"What do you do all day?"
"Oh, I read, and sew a little, and take naps, and sit with auntie."
"No running about out of doors, or house-work, or riding, hey?"
"Aunt Plenty says I'm not strong enough for much exercise. I drive out
with her sometimes, but I don't care for it."
"I'm not surprised at that," said Uncle Alec, half to himself, adding,
in his quick way: "Who have you had to play with?"
