"I don't see how I could attend to many more patients till this one is
off my hands," answered Mamma, with a queer smile, adding quickly, as if
she too was afraid of letting the cat out of the bag: "That reminds me
of a Christmas I once spent among the hospitals and poor-houses of
a great city with a good lady who, for thirty years, had made it her
mission to see that these poor little souls had one merry day. We gave
away two hundred dolls, several great boxes of candy and toys, besides
gay pictures, and new clothes to orphan children, sick babies, and
half-grown innocents. Ah, my boy, that was a day to remember all my
life, to make me doubly grateful for my blessings, and very glad to
serve the helpless and afflicted, as that dear woman did."
The look and tone with which the last words were uttered effectually
turned Jack's thoughts from the great secret, and started another small
one, for he fell to planning what he would buy with his pocket-money to
surprise the little Pats and Biddies who were to have no Christmas tree.
Chapter VI. Surprises
"Is it pleasant?" was the question Jill asked before she was fairly
awake on Christmas morning.
"Yes, dear; as bright as heart could wish. Now eat a bit, and then I'll
make you nice for the day's pleasure. I only hope it won't be too much
for you," answered Mrs. Pecq, bustling about, happy, yet anxious,
for Jill was to be carried over to Mrs. Minot's, and it was her first
attempt at going out since the accident.
It seemed as if nine o'clock would never come, and Jill, with wraps all
ready, lay waiting in a fever of impatience for the doctor's visit,
as he wished to superintend the moving. At last he came, found all
promising, and having bundled up his small patient, carried her, with
Frank's help, in her chair-bed to the ox-sled, which was drawn to the
next door, and Miss Jill landed in the Boys' Den before she had time to
get either cold or tired. Mrs. Minot took her things off with a cordial
welcome, but Jill never said a word, for, after one exclamation, she lay
staring about her, dumb with surprise and delight at what she saw.
The great room was entirely changed; for now it looked like a garden, or
one of the fairy scenes children love, where in-doors and out-of-doors
are pleasantly combined. The ceiling was pale blue, like the sky; the
walls were covered with a paper like a rustic trellis, up which climbed
morning-glories so naturally that the many-colored bells seemed dancing
in the wind. Birds and butterflies flew among them, and here and there,
through arches in the trellis, one seemed to look into a sunny summer
world, contrasting curiously with the wintry landscape lying beyond the
real windows, festooned with evergreen garlands, and curtained only by
stands of living flowers. A green drugget covered the floor like grass,
rustic chairs from the garden stood about, and in the middle of the room
a handsome hemlock waited for its pretty burden. A Yule-log blazed on
the wide hearth, and over the chimney-piece, framed in holly, shone the
words that set all hearts to dancing, "Merry Christmas!"
