'That job is done. Now I will dust a bit, and then go to my work. I'm
all behind-hand, and serials can't wait; so deny me to everybody, Mary.
I won't see Queen Victoria if she comes today.' And Mrs Bhaer threw down
her napkin as if defying all creation.
'I hope the day will go well with thee, my dearest,' answered her
husband, who had been busy with his own voluminous correspondence. 'I
will dine at college with Professor Plock, who is to visit us today. The
Junglings can lunch on Parnassus; so thou shalt have a quiet time.' And
smoothing the worried lines out of her forehead with his good-bye kiss,
the excellent man marched away, both pockets full of books, an old
umbrella in one hand, and a bag of stones for the geology class in the
other.
'If all literary women had such thoughtful angels for husbands, they
would live longer and write more. Perhaps that wouldn't be a blessing to
the world though, as most of us write too much now,' said Mrs Jo, waving
her feather duster to her spouse, who responded with flourishes of the
umbrella as he went down the avenue.
Rob started for school at the same time, looking so much like him with
his books and bag and square shoulders and steady air that his mother
laughed as she turned away, saying heartily: 'Bless both my dear
professors, for better creatures never lived!'
Emil was already gone to his ship in the city; but Ted lingered to steal
the address he wanted, ravage the sugar-bowl, and talk with 'Mum';
for the two had great larks together. Mrs Jo always arranged her own
parlour, refilled her vases, and gave the little touches that left it
cool and neat for the day. Going to draw down the curtain, she beheld an
artist sketching on the lawn, and groaned as she hastily retired to the
back window to shake her duster.
At that moment the bell rang and the sound of wheels was heard in the
road.
'I'll go; Mary lets 'em in'; and Ted smoothed his hair as he made for
the hall.
'Can't see anyone. Give me a chance to fly upstairs,' whispered Mrs Jo,
preparing to escape. But before she could do so, a man appeared at the
door with a card in his hand. Ted met him with a stern air, and his
mother dodged behind the window-curtains to bide her time for escape.
'I am doing a series of articles for the Saturday Tattler, and I
called to see Mrs Bhaer the first of all,' began the newcomer in the
insinuating tone of his tribe, while his quick eyes were taking in all
they could, experience having taught him to make the most of his time,
as his visits were usually short ones.
'Mrs Bhaer never sees reporters, sir.'
'But a few moments will be all I ask,' said the man, edging his way
farther in.
'You can't see her, for she is out,' replied Teddy, as a backward glance
showed him that his unhappy parent had vanished--through the window, he
supposed, as she sometimes did when hard bestead.
