These were the boys and they lived together as happy as twelve lads
could, studying and playing, working and squabbling, fighting faults and
cultivating virtues in the good old-fashioned way. Boys at other schools
probably learned more from books, but less of that better wisdom which
makes good men. Latin, Greek, and mathematics were all very well, but in
Professor Bhaer's opinion, self knowledge, self-help, and self-control
were more important, and he tried to teach them carefully. People shook
their heads sometimes at his ideas, even while they owned that the boys
improved wonderfully in manners and morals. But then, as Mrs. Jo said to
Nat, "it was an odd school."
CHAPTER III. SUNDAY
The moment the bell rang next morning Nat flew out of bed, and dressed
himself with great satisfaction in the suit of clothes he found on
the chair. They were not new, being half-worn garments of one of the
well-to-do boys; but Mrs. Bhaer kept all such cast-off feathers for the
picked robins who strayed into her nest. They were hardly on when Tommy
appeared in a high state of clean collar, and escorted Nat down to
breakfast.
The sun was shining into the dining-room on the well-spread table, and
the flock of hungry, hearty lads who gathered round it. Nat observed
that they were much more orderly than they had been the night before,
and every one stood silently behind his chair while little Rob, standing
beside his father at the head of the table, folded his hands, reverently
bent his curly head, and softly repeated a short grace in the devout
German fashion, which Mr. Bhaer loved and taught his little son to
honor. Then they all sat down to enjoy the Sunday-morning breakfast of
coffee, steak, and baked potatoes, instead of the bread and milk fare
with which they usually satisfied their young appetites. There was much
pleasant talk while the knives and forks rattled briskly, for certain
Sunday lessons were to be learned, the Sunday walk settled, and plans
for the week discussed. As he listened, Nat thought it seemed as if this
day must be a very pleasant one, for he loved quiet, and there was
a cheerful sort of hush over every thing that pleased him very much;
because, in spite of his rough life, the boy possessed the sensitive
nerves which belong to a music-loving nature.
"Now, my lads, get your morning jobs done, and let me find you ready
for church when the 'bus comes round," said Father Bhaer, and set the
example by going into the school-room to get books ready for the morrow.
Every one scattered to his or her task, for each had some little daily
duty, and was expected to perform it faithfully. Some brought wood and
water, brushed the steps, or ran errands for Mrs. Bhaer. Others fed the
pet animals, and did chores about the barn with Franz. Daisy washed the
cups, and Demi wiped them, for the twins liked to work together, and
Demi had been taught to make himself useful in the little house at home.
Even Baby Teddy had his small job to do, and trotted to and fro, putting
napkins away, and pushing chairs into their places. For half and hour
the lads buzzed about like a hive of bees, then the 'bus drove round,
Father Bhaer and Franz with the eight older boys piled in, and away they
went for a three-mile drive to church in town.
