   [A moral is tacked on even to the early poems.--L. M. A.]
   I read "Philothea,"[6] by Mrs. Child. I found this that I liked
   in it. Plato said:--
   "When I hear a note of music I can at once strike its chord. Even
   as surely is there everlasting harmony between the soul of man
   and the invisible forms of creation. If there were no innocent
   hearts there would be no white lilies.... I often think flowers
   are the angel's alphabet whereby they write on hills and fields
   mysterious and beautiful lessons for us to feel and learn."
   [Well done, twelve-year-old! Plato, the father's delight, had a
   charm for the little girl also.--L. M. A.]
   _Wednesday._--I am so cross I wish I had never been born.
   _Thursday._--Read the "Heart of Mid-Lothian," and had a very
   happy day. Miss Ford gave us a botany lesson in the woods. I am
   always good there. In the evening Miss Ford told us about the
   bones in our bodies, and how they get out of order. I must be
   careful of mine, I climb and jump and run so much.
   I found this note from dear mother in my journal:--
   MY DEAREST LOUY,--I often peep into your diary, hoping to see
   some record of more happy days. "Hope, and keep busy," dear
   daughter, and in all perplexity or trouble come freely to your
     MOTHER.
   DEAR MOTHER,--You _shall_ see more happy days, and I _will_ come
   to you with my worries, for you are the best woman in the world.
     L. M. A.
_A Sample of our Lessons._
   "What virtues do you wish more of?" asks Mr. L.
   I answer:--
     Patience,
     Obedience,
     Industry,
     Love,
     Generosity,
     Respect,
     Silence,
     Perseverance,
     Self-denial.
"What vices less of?"
     Idleness,
     Impatience,
     Selfishness,
     Wilfulness,
     Impudence,
     Activity,
     Vanity,
     Pride,
     Love of cats.
       MR. L.          L.
     SOCRATES.     ALCIBIADES.
   How can you get what you need? By trying.
   How do you try? By resolution and perseverance.
   How gain love? By gentleness.
   What is gentleness? Kindness, patience, and care for other
   people's feelings.
   Who has it? Father and Anna.
   Who means to have it? Louisa, if she can.
   [She never got it.--L. M. A.]
   Write a sentence about anything. "I hope it will rain; the garden
   needs it."
   What are the elements of _hope_? Expectation, desire, faith.
   What are the elements in _wish_? Desire.
   What is the difference between faith and hope? "Faith can believe
   without seeing; hope is not sure, but tries to have faith when it
   desires."
     No. 3.
   What are the most valuable kinds of self-denial? Appetite,
   temper.
   How is self-denial of temper known? If I control my temper, I am
   respectful and gentle, and every one sees it.
   What is the result of this self-denial? Every one loves me, and I
   am happy.
   Why use self-denial? For the good of myself and others.
   How shall we learn this self-denial? By resolving, and then
   trying _hard._
   What then do you mean to do? To resolve and try.
   [Here the record of these lessons ends, and poor little
   Alcibiades went to work and tried till fifty, but without any
   very great success, in spite of all the help Socrates and Plato
   gave her.--L. M. A.]
