   Anna thought it was very fine; but I didn't like it very well.
   _Friday, Nov. 2nd._--Anna and I did the work. In the evening Mr.
   Lane asked us, "What is man?" These were our answers: A human
   being; an animal with a mind; a creature; a body; a soul and a
   mind. After a long talk we went to bed very tired.
   [No wonder, after doing the work and worrying their little wits
   with such lessons.--L. M. A.]
   A sample of the vegetarian wafers we used at Fruitlands:--
     Vegetable diet
     and sweet repose.
     Animal food and
     nightmare.
     Pluck your body
     from the orchard;
     do not snatch it
     from the shamble.
     Without flesh diet
     there could be no
     blood-shedding war.
     Apollo eats no
     flesh and has no
     beard; his voice is
     melody itself.
     Snuff is no less snuff
     though accepted from
     a gold box.
   _Tuesday, 20th._--I rose at five, and after breakfast washed the
   dishes, and then helped mother work. Miss F. is gone, and Anna in
   Boston with Cousin Louisa. I took care of Abby (May) in the
   afternoon. In the evening I made some pretty things for my dolly.
   Father and Mr. L. had a talk, and father asked us if _we_ saw any
   reason for us to separate. Mother wanted to, she is so tired. I
   like it, but not the school part or Mr. L.
   Eleven years old. _Thursday, 29th._--It was Father's and my
   birthday. We had some nice presents. We played in the snow before
   school. Mother read "Rosamond" when we sewed. Father asked us in
   the eve what fault troubled us most. I said my bad temper.
   I told mother I liked to have her write in my book. She said she
   would put in more, and she wrote this to help me:--
   DEAR LOUY,--Your handwriting improves very fast. Take pains and
   do not be in a hurry. I like to have you make observations about
   our conversations and your own thoughts. It helps you to express
   them and to understand your little self. Remember, dear girl,
   that a diary should be an epitome of your life. May it be a
   record of pure thought and good actions, then you will indeed be
   the precious child of your loving mother.
   _December 10th._--I did my lessons, and walked in the afternoon.
   Father read to us in dear Pilgrim's Progress. Mr. L. was in
   Boston, and we were glad. In the eve father and mother and Anna
   and I had a long talk. I was very unhappy, and we all cried. Anna
   and I cried in bed, and I prayed God to keep us all together.
   [Little Lu began early to feel the family cares and peculiar
   trials.--L. M. A.]
   I liked the verses Christian sung and will put them in:--
     "This place has been our second stage,
       Here we have heard and seen
     Those good things that from age to age
       To others hid have been.
     "They move me for to watch and pray,
       To strive to be sincere,
     To take my cross up day by day,
       And serve the Lord with fear."
