   Plays in the barn were a favorite amusement, and we dramatized
   the fairy tales in great style. Our giant came tumbling off a
   loft when Jack cut down the squash-vine running up a ladder to
   represent the immortal bean. Cinderella rolled away in a vast
   pumpkin, and a long black pudding was lowered by invisible hands
   to fasten itself on the nose of the woman who wasted her three
   wishes.
   Pilgrims journeyed over the hill with scrip and staff and
   cockle-shells in their hats; fairies held their pretty revels
   among the whispering birches, and strawberry parties in the
   rustic arbor were honored by poets and philosophers, who fed us
   on their wit and wisdom while the little maids served more mortal
   food.
FOOTNOTE:
[4] Written at eight years of age.
CHAPTER III.
FRUITLANDS.
     MY KINGDOM.
     A little kingdom I possess,
       Where thoughts and feelings dwell,
     And very hard I find the task
       Of governing it well;
     For passion tempts and troubles me,
       A wayward will misleads,
     And selfishness its shadow casts
       On all my words and deeds.
     How can I learn to rule myself,
       To be the child I should,
     Honest and brave, nor ever tire
       Of trying to be good?
     How can I keep a sunny soul
       To shine along life's way?
     How can I tune my little heart
       To sweetly sing all day?
     Dear Father, help me with the love
       That casteth out my fear,
     Teach me to lean on thee, and feel
       That thou art very near,
     That no temptation is unseen,
       No childish grief too small,
     Since thou, with patience infinite,
       Doth soothe and comfort all.
     I do not ask for any crown
       But that which all may win,
     Nor seek to conquer any world
       Except the one within.
     Be thou my guide until I find,
       Led by a tender hand,
     Thy happy kingdom in _myself_,
     And dare to take command.
In 1842 Mr. Alcott went to England. His mind was very much exercised
at this time with plans for organized social life on a higher plane,
and he found like-minded friends in England who gave him sympathy and
encouragement. He had for some years advocated a strictly vegetarian
diet, to which his family consented from deference to him;
consequently the children never tasted meat till they came to
maturity. On his return from England he was accompanied by friends who
were ready to unite with him in the practical realization of their
social theories. Mr. Lane resided for some months in the Alcott family
at Concord, and gave instruction to the children. Although he does not
appear to have won their hearts, they yet reaped much intellectual
advantage from his lessons, as he was an accomplished scholar.
In 1843 this company of enthusiasts secured a farm in the town of
Harvard, near Concord, which with trusting hope they named Fruitlands.
Mrs. Alcott did not share in all the peculiar ideas of her husband and
his friends, but she was so utterly devoted to him that she was ready
to help him in carrying out his plans, however little they commended
themselves to her better judgment.
