"Come to Boston, and I will find you employment," said the friend.
The family removed to Boston in 1848, and Mrs. Alcott became a visitor
to the poor in the employ of one or more benevolent societies, and
finally kept an intelligence office. Her whole heart went into her
work; and the children, as well as the mother, learned many valuable
lessons from it. Her reports of her work are said to have been very
interesting, and full of valuable suggestion.
Mr. Alcott began to hold conversations in West Street. He attracted a
small circle of thoughtful men and women about him, who delighted in
the height of his aspirations and the originality of his thoughts. It
was congenial occupation for him, and thus added to the happiness of
the family, though very little to its pecuniary resources. His price
of admission was small, and he freely invited any one who would enjoy
the meetings although unable to pay for them. He was a great and
helpful influence to young minds. Besides the morally pure and
spiritually elevated atmosphere of thought to which they were
introduced by him, they found a great intellectual advantage in the
acquaintance with ancient poets and philosophers, into whose life he
had entered sympathetically. His peculiar theories of temperament and
diet never failed to call out discussion and opposition. One of my
earliest recollections of Louisa is on one of these occasions, when he
was emphasizing his doctrine that a vegetable diet would produce
unruffled sweetness of temper and disposition. I heard a voice behind
me saying to her neighbor: "I don't know about that. I've never eaten
any meat, and I'm awful cross and irritable very often."
On her fourteenth birthday her mother wrote her the following poem,
with a present of a pen. It was a prophetic gift, and well used by the
receiver.
     Oh, may this pen your muse inspire,
       When wrapt in pure poetic fire,
     To write some sweet, some thrilling verse;
       A song of love or sorrow's lay,
     Or duty's clear but tedious way
       In brighter hope rehearse.
     Oh, let your strain be soft and high,
       Of crosses here, of crowns beyond the sky;
     Truth guide your pen, inspire your theme,
       And from each note joy's music stream.
   [Original, I think. I have tried to obey.--L. M. A., 1885.]
In a sketch written for a friend, Louisa gives this account of the
parents' influence on the children:--
   When cautious friends asked mother how she dared to have such
   outcasts among her girls, she always answered, with an expression
   of confidence which did much to keep us safe, "I can trust my
   daughters, and this is the best way to teach them how to shun
   these sins and comfort these sorrows. They cannot escape the
   knowledge of them; better gain this under their father's roof and
   their mother's care, and so be protected by these experiences
   when their turn comes to face the world and its temptations."
   Once we carried our breakfast to a starving family; once lent our
   whole dinner to a neighbor suddenly taken unprepared by
   distinguished guests. Another time, one snowy Saturday night,
   when our wood was very low, a poor child came to beg a little, as
   the baby was sick and the father on a spree with all his wages.
   My mother hesitated at first, as we also had a baby. Very cold
   weather was upon us, and a Sunday to be got through before more
   wood could be had. My father said, "Give half our stock, and
   trust in Providence; the weather will moderate, or wood will
   come." Mother laughed, and answered in her cheery way, "Well,
   their need is greater than ours, and if our half gives out we can
   go to bed and tell stories." So a generous half went to the poor
   neighbor, and a little later in the eve, while the storm still
   raged and we were about to cover our fire to keep it, a knock
   came, and a farmer who usually supplied us appeared, saying
   anxiously, "I started for Boston with a load of wood, but it
   drifts so I want to go home. Wouldn't you like to have me drop
   the wood here; it would accommodate me, and you needn't hurry
   about paying for it." "Yes," said Father; and as the man went off
   he turned to Mother with a look that much impressed us children
   with his gifts as a seer, "Didn't I tell you wood would come if
   the weather did not moderate?" Mother's motto was "Hope, and keep
   busy," and one of her sayings, "Cast your bread upon the waters,
   and after many days it will come back buttered."
