_Journal._
THE SENTIMENTAL PERIOD.
   BOSTON, _May, 1850._--So long a time has passed since I kept a
   journal that I hardly know how to begin. Since coming to the city
   I don't seem to have thought much, for the bustle and dirt and
   change send all lovely images and restful feelings away. Among my
   hills and woods I had fine free times alone, and though my
   thoughts were silly, I daresay, they helped to keep me happy and
   good. I see now what Nature did for me, and my "romantic tastes,"
   as people called that love of solitude and out-of-door life,
   taught me much.
   This summer, like the last, we shall spend in a large house
   (Uncle May's, Atkinson Street), with many comforts about us which
   we shall enjoy, and in the autumn I hope I shall have something
   to show that the time has not been wasted. Seventeen years have I
   lived, and yet so little do I know, and so much remains to be
   done before I begin to be what I desire,--a truly good and useful
   woman.
   In looking over our journals, Father says, "Anna's is about other
   people, Louisa's about herself." That is true, for I don't _talk_
   about myself; yet must always think of the wilful, moody girl I
   try to manage, and in my journal I write of her to see how she
   gets on. Anna is so good she need not take care of herself, and
   can enjoy other people. If I look in my glass, I try to keep down
   vanity about my long hair, my well-shaped head, and my good nose.
   In the street I try not to covet fine things. My quick tongue is
   always getting me into trouble, and my moodiness makes it hard to
   be cheerful when I think how poor we are, how much worry it is to
   live, and how many things I long to do I never can.
   So every day is a battle, and I'm so tired I don't want to live;
   only it's cowardly to die till you have done something.
   I can't talk to any one but Mother about my troubles, and she has
   so many now to bear I try not to add any more. I know God is
   always ready to hear, but heaven's so far away in the city, and
   I so heavy I can't fly up to find Him.
     FAITH.
     Written in the diary.
     Oh, when the heart is full of fears
       And the way seems dim to heaven,
     When the sorrow and the care of years
       Peace from the heart has driven,--
     Then, through the mist of falling tears,
       Look up and be forgiven.
     Forgiven for the lack of faith
       That made all dark to thee,
     Let conscience o'er thy wayward soul
       Have fullest mastery:
     Hope on, fight on, and thou shalt win
       A noble victory.
     Though thou art weary and forlorn,
       Let not thy heart's peace go;
     Though the riches of this world are gone,
       And thy lot is care and woe,
     Faint not, but journey hourly on:
       True wealth is not below.
