     But I'll be contented
       With what I have got;
     Of folly repented,
       Then sweet is my lot.
     From your trying daughter,
     LOUY.
   MY DEAR LOUISA,--Your note gave me so much delight that I cannot
   close my eyes without first thanking you, dear, for making me so
   happy, and blessing God who gave you this tender love for your
   mother.
   I have observed all day your patience with baby, your obedience
   to me, and your kindness to all.
   Go on "trying," my child; God will give you strength and courage,
   and help you fill each day with words and deeds of love. I shall
   lay this on your pillow, put a warm kiss on your lips, and say a
   little prayer over you in your sleep.
     MOTHER.
   MY LOUY,--I was grieved at your selfish behavior this morning,
   but also greatly pleased to find you bore so meekly Father's
   reproof for it. That is the way, dear; if you find you are wrong,
   take the discipline sweetly, and do so no more. It is not to be
   expected that children should always do right; but oh, how lovely
   to see a child penitent and patient when the passion is over.
   I thought a little prayer as I looked at you, and said in my
   heart, "Dear God, sustain my child in this moment of trial, that
   no hasty word, no cruel look, no angry action may add to her
   fault." And you were helped. I know that you will have a happy
   day after the storm and the gentle shower; keep quiet, read,
   walk, but do not talk much till all is peace again.
     MOTHER.
     HILLSIDE, CONCORD.
   DEAR,--I am glad you put your heart in the right place; for I am
   sure all true strength comes from above. Continue to feel that
   God is _near_ you, dear child, and He never will forsake you in a
   weak moment. Write me always when you feel that I can help you;
   for, though God is near, Mother never forgets you, and your
   refuge is her arms.
   Patience, dear, will give us content, if nothing else. Be assured
   the little room you long for will come, if it is necessary to
   your peace and well-being. Till then try to be happy with the
   good things you have. They are many,--more perhaps than we
   deserve, after our frequent complaints and discontent.
   Be cheerful, my Louy, and all will be gayer for your laugh, and
   all good and lovely things will be given to you when you deserve
   them.
   I am a busy woman, but never can forget the calls of my children.
     MOTHER.
   DEAREST,--I am sure you have lived very near to God _to-day_, you
   have been so good and happy. Let each day be like this, and life
   will become a sweet song for you and all who love you,--none so
   much as your
     MOTHER.
_Thirteen Years Old._
     HILLSIDE.
   _March, 1846._--I have at last got the little room I have wanted
   so long, and am very happy about it. It does me good to be
   alone, and Mother has made it very pretty and neat for me. My
   work-basket and desk are by the window, and my closet is full of
   dried herbs that smell very nice. The door that opens into the
   garden will be very pretty in summer, and I can run off to the
   woods when I like.
