   Father asked us what was God's noblest work. Anna said _men_, but
   I said _babies_. Men are often bad; babies never are. We had a
   long talk, and I felt better after it, and _cleared up_.
   We had bread and fruit for dinner. I read and walked and played
   till supper-time. We sung in the evening. As I went to bed the
   moon came up very brightly and looked at me. I felt sad because I
   have been cross to-day, and did not mind Mother. I cried, and
   then I felt better, and said that piece from Mrs. Sigourney, "I
   must not tease my mother." I get to sleep saying poetry,--I know
   a great deal.
   _Thursday, 14th._--Mr. Parker Pillsbury came, and we talked about
   the poor slaves. I had a music lesson with Miss F. I hate her,
   she is so fussy. I ran in the wind and played be a horse, and had
   a lovely time in the woods with Anna and Lizzie. We were fairies,
   and made gowns and paper wings. I "flied" the highest of all. In
   the evening they talked about travelling. I thought about Father
   going to England, and said this piece of poetry I found in
   Byron's poems:--
     "When I left thy shores, O Naxos,
       Not a tear in sorrow fell;
     Not a sigh or faltered accent
       Told my bosom's struggling swell."
   It rained when I went to bed, and made a pretty noise on the
   roof.
   _Sunday, 24th._--Father and Mr. Lane have gone to N. H. to
   preach. It was very lovely.... Anna and I got supper. In the eve
   I read "Vicar of Wakefield." I was cross to-day, and I cried when
   I went to bed. I made good resolutions, and felt better in my
   heart. If I only _kept_ all I make, I should be the best girl in
   the world. But I don't, and so am very bad.
   [Poor little sinner! _She says the same at fifty._--L. M. A.]
   _October 8th._--When I woke up, the first thought I got was,
   "It's Mother's birthday: I must be very good." I ran and wished
   her a happy birthday, and gave her my kiss. After breakfast we
   gave her our presents. I had a moss cross and a piece of poetry
   for her.
   We did not have any school, and played in the woods and got red
   leaves. In the evening we danced and sung, and I read a story
   about "Contentment." I wish I was rich, I was good, and we were
   all a happy family this day.
   _Thursday, 12th._--After lessons I ironed. We all went to the
   barn and husked corn. It was good fun. We worked till eight
   o'clock and had lamps. Mr. Russell came. Mother and Lizzie are
   going to Boston. I shall be very lonely without dear little
   Betty, and no one will be as good to me as mother. I read in
   Plutarch. I made a verse about sunset:--
     Softly doth the sun descend
       To his couch behind the hill,
     Then, oh, then, I love to sit
       On mossy banks beside the rill.
