They knew what it meant, but never spoke of it,--only pondered over it,
and mourned with mother at the change which was slowly altering their
kind industrious father into a moody man, and mother into an anxious
over-worked woman.
Kitty was thirteen, and a very capable girl, who helped with the
housekeeping, took care of the two little ones, and went to school.
Tommy and Sammy looked up to her and thought her a remarkably good
sister.  Now, as they sat round the stove having "a go-to-bed warm," the
three heads were close together; and the boys listened eagerly to
Kitty's plans, while the rattle of the sewing-machine in another room
went on as tirelessly as it had done all day, for mother's work was more
and more needed every month.
"Well!" began Kitty, in an impressive tone, "we all know that there
won't be a bit of Christmas in this family if we don't make it.
Mother's too busy, and father don't care, so we must see what we can do;
for I should be mortified to death to go to school and say I had n't had
any turkey or plum-pudding.  Don't expect presents; but we _must_ have
some kind of a decent dinner."
"So I say; I'm tired of fish and potatoes," said Sammy, the younger.
"But where's the dinner coming from?" asked Tommy, who had already taken
some of the cares of life on his young shoulders, and knew that
Christmas dinners did not walk into people's houses without money.
"We 'll earn it;" and Kitty looked like a small Napoleon planning the
passage of the Alps.  "You, Tom, must go early to-morrow to Mr. Brisket
and offer to carry baskets.  He will be dreadfully busy, and want you, I
know; and you are so strong you can lug as much as some of the big
fellows.  He pays well, and if he won't give much money, you can take
your wages in things to eat.  We want everything."
"What shall I do?" cried Sammy, while Tom sat turning this plan over in
his mind.
"Take the old shovel and clear sidewalks. The snow came on purpose to
help you."
"It's awful hard work, and the shovel's half gone," began Sammy, who
preferred to spend his holiday coasting on an old tea-tray.
"Don't growl, or you won't get any dinner," said Tom, making up his mind
to lug baskets for the good of the family, like a manly lad as he was.
"I," continued Kitty, "have taken the hardest part of all; for after my
work is done, and the babies safely settled, I 'm going to beg for the
leavings of the holly and pine swept out of the church down below, and
make some wreaths and sell them."
"If you can," put in Tommy, who had tried pencils, and failed to make a
fortune.
"Not in the street?" cried Sam, looking alarmed.
"Yes, at the corner of the Park.  I 'm bound to make some money, and
don't see any other way.  I shall put on an old hood and shawl, and no
one will know me.  Don't care if they do."  And Kitty tried to mean what
she said, but in her heart she felt that it would be a trial to her
pride if any of her schoolmates should happen to recognize her.
