As Miss Grace spoke, it was beautiful to see the clouds lift from
Lizzie's wondering face, till it shone with the sweetest beauty any face
can wear,--the happiness of helping others.  She forgot her own
disappointment in the new hope that came, and held on to the bedpost as
if the splendid plan were almost too much for her.
"Could I help that way?" she cried. "Would anybody care to hear me sing?
Oh, how I 'd love to do anything for the poor little ones who will have
to wait."
"You shall.  I 'm sure the hardest heart would be touched by your
singing, if you look as you do now.  We need something new for our fair
and concert, and by that time you will be ready," said Miss Grace,
almost afraid she had said too much; for the child looked so frail, it
seemed as if even joy would hurt her.
Fortunately her mother came in just then; and while the lady talked to
her, Minna's childish chatter soothed Lizzie so well that when they left
she stood at the window smiling down at them and singing like the
happiest bobolink that ever tilted on a willow branch in spring-time.
All the promises were kept, and soon a new life began for Lizzie.  A
better room and well-paid work were found for Mrs. Davis.  Minna came as
often as she could to cheer up her little friend, and best of all, Miss
Grace taught her to sing, that by and by the little voice might plead
with its pathetic music for others less blest than she.  So the winter
months went by, and Lizzie grew like mayflowers underneath the snow,
getting ready to look up, sweet and rosy, when spring set her free and
called her to be glad.  She counted the months and weeks, and when the
time dwindled to days, she could hardly sleep or eat for thinking of the
happy hour when she could go to be a pupil in the school where miracles
were worked.
Her birthday was in June, and thanks to Miss Grace, her coming was
celebrated by one of the pretty festivals of the school, called Daisy
Day. Lizzie knew nothing of this surprise, and when her friends led her
up the long flight of steps she looked like a happy little soul climbing
to the gates of heaven.
Mr. Constantine, the ruler of this small kingdom, was a man whose
fatherly heart had room for every suffering child in the world, and it
rejoiced over every one who came, though the great house was
overflowing, and many waited as Lizzie had done.
He welcomed her so kindly that the strange place seemed like home at
once, and Minna led her away to the little mates who proudly showed her
their small possessions and filled her hands with the treasures children
love, while pouring into her ears delightful tales of the study, work,
and play that made their lives so happy.
