"Things was gettin' desper't by that time; for aunt was failin'
rapid, an' the story hed leaked aout some way, so the hull taown was
gigglin' over it. I thought I'd better quit them parts; but aunt she
showed me her will all done complete, 'sceptin' the fust name er the
legatee. 'There,' sez she, 'it all depends on yeou, whether that
place is took by Hiram or Josiah. It's easy done, an' so it's goan
tew stan' till the last minnit.' That riled me consid'able, an' I
streaked off tew May Jane Simlin's. She want very waal off, nor
extra harnsome, but she was pious the wust kind, an' dreadf'l clever
to them she fancied. But I was daown on my luck agin; fer at the
fust word I spoke of merryin', she showed me the door, an' give me
to understan' that she couldn't think er hevin' a man that warn't a
church-member, that hadn't experienced religion, or even ben struck
with conviction, an' all the rest on't. Ef anny one hed a wanted tew
hev seen a walkin' hornet's nest, they could hev done it cheap that
night, as I went hum. I jest stramed intew the kitchen, chucked my
hat intew one corner, my coat intew 'nother, kicked the cat, cussed
the fire, drawed up a chair, and set scaoulin' like sixty, bein' tew
mad for talkin'. The young woman that was nussin' aunt,--Bewlah
Blish, by name,--was a cookin' grewel on the coals, and 'peared tew
understan' the mess I was in; but she didn't say nothin', only
blowed up the fire, fetched me a mug er cider, an' went raound so
kinder quiet, and sympathizin', that I faound the wrinkles in my
temper gettin' smoothed aout 'mazin' quick; an' 'fore long I made a
clean breast er the hull thing. Bewlah larfed, but I didn't mind her
doin' on't, for she sez, sez she, real sort o' cunnin',--
"'Poor Hiram! they didn't use yeou waal. Yeou ought to hev tried
some er the poor an' humly girls; they'd a' been glad an' grateful
fer such a sweetheart as yeou be.'
"I was good-natered agin by that time, an' I sez, larfin' along with
her, 'Waal I've got three mittens, but I guess I might's waal hev
'nother, and that will make two pair complete. Say, Bewlah, will
yeou hev me?'
"'Yes, I will,' sez she.
"'Reelly?' sez I.
"'Solemn trew,' sez she.
"Ef she'd up an' slapped me in the face, I shouldn't hev ben more
throwed aback, fer I never mistrusted she cared two chips for me. I
jest set an' gawped; fer she was solemn trew, I see that with half
an eye, an' it kinder took my breath away. Bewlah drawed the grewel
off the fire, wiped her hands, an' stood lookin' at me a minnet,
then she sez, slow an' quiet, but tremblin' a little, as women hev a
way er doin', when they've consid'able steam aboard,--
"'Hiram, other folks think lumberin' has spilt yeou; I don't; they
call yeou rough an' rewd; I know you've got a real kind heart fer
them as knows haow tew find it. Them girls give yeou up so easy,
'cause they never loved yeou, an' yeou give them up 'cause yeou only
thought abaout their looks an' money. I'm humly, an' I'm poor; but
I've loved yeou ever sence we went a-nuttin' years ago, an' yeou
shook daown fer me, kerried my bag, and kissed me tew the gate, when
all the others shunned me, 'cause my father drank an' I was shably
dressed, ugly, an' shy. Yeou asked me in sport, I answered in
airnest; but I don't expect nothin' unless yeou mean as I mean. Like
me, Hiram, or leave me, it won't make no odds in my lovin' er yeou,
nor helpin' er yeou, ef I kin.'
