"'Tain't easy tew say haouw I felt, while she was goin' on that way;
but my idees was tumblin' raound inside er me, as ef half a dozen
dams was broke loose all tew oncet. One thing was ruther stiddier 'n
the rest, an' that was that I liked Bewlah morn'n I knew. I begun
tew see what kep me loopin' tew hum so much, sence aunt was took
daown; why I want in no hurry tew git them other gals, an' haow I
come tew pocket my mittens so easy arfter the fust rile was over.
Bewlah was humly, poor in flesh, dreadful freckled, hed red hair,
black eyes, an' a gret mold side er her nose. But I'd got wonted tew
her; she knowed my ways, was a fust rate housekeeper, real
good-tempered, and pious without flingin' on't in yer face. She was
a lonely creeter,--her folks bein' all dead but one sister, who
didn't use her waal, an' somehow I kinder yearned over her, as they
say in Scripter. For all I set an' gawped, I was coming raound fast,
though I felt as I used tew, when I was goin' to shoot the rapids,
kinder breathless an' oncertin, whether Id come aout right side up
or not. Queer, warn't it?"
"Love, Flint; that was a sure symptom of it."
"Waal, guess 'twas; anyway I jumped up all er a sudden, ketched
Bewlah raound the neck, give her a hearty kiss, and sung aout, 'I'll
dew it sure's my name's Hi Flint!' The words was scurcely aout er my
maouth, 'fore daown come Dr. Parr. He'd ben up tew see aunt, an'
said she wouldn't last the night threw, prob'ly. That give me a
scarer the wust kind; an' when I told doctor haow things was, he
sez, kinder jokin',--
"'Better git merried right away, then. Parson Dill is tew come an'
see the old lady, an' he'll dew both jobs tew oncet.'
"'Will yeou, Bewlah?' sez I.
"'Yes, Hiram, to 'blige yeou,' sez she.
"With that, I put it fer the parson and the license; got 'em both,
an' was back in less'n half an haour, most tuckered aout with the
flurry er the hull concern. Quick as I'd been, Bewlah hed faound
time tew whip on her best gaoun, fix up her hair, and put a couple
er white chrissanthymums intew her hank'chif pin. Fer the fust time
in her life, she looked harnsome,--leastways I thought so,--with a
pretty color in her cheeks, somethin' brighter'n a larf shinin' in
her eyes, an' her lips smilin' an' tremblin', as she come to me an'
whispered so's't none er the rest could hear,--
"'Hiram, don't yeou dew it, ef yeou'd ruther not. I've stood it a
gret while alone, an' I guess I can ag'in.'
"Never yeou mind what I said or done abaout that; but we was married
ten minutes arfter, 'fore the kitchen fire, with Dr. Parr an' oaur
hired man, fer witnesses; an' then we all went up tew aunt. She was
goan fast, but she understood what I told her, hed strength tew fill
up the hole in the will, an' to say, a-kissin' Bewlah, 'Yeou'll be a
good wife, an' naouw yeou ain't a poor one.'
