"I know she will! I've dreamed of it, I've prayed for it; every
battle I come out of safe makes me surer that I was kept for that,
and when I've borne enough to atone for my part of the fault, I'll
be repaid for all my patience, all my pain, by finding her again.
She knows how well I love her still, and if there comes a time when
she is sick and poor and all alone again, then she'll remember her
old John, then she'll come home and let me take her in."
Hope shone in Thorn's melancholy eyes, and long-suffering
all-forgiving love beautified the rough, brown face, as he folded
his arms and bent his gray head on his breast, as if the wanderer
were already come.
The emotion which Dick scorned to show on his own account was freely
manifested for another, as he sniffed audibly, and, boy-like, drew
his sleeve across his eyes. But Phil, with the delicate perception
of a finer nature, felt that the truest kindness he could show his
friend was to distract his thoughts from himself, to spare him any
comments, and lessen the embarrassment which would surely follow
such unwonted confidence.
"Now I'll relieve Flint, and he will give you a laugh. Come on Hiram
and tell us about your Beulah."
The gentleman addressed had performed his duty, by sitting on a
fence and "righting up" his pockets, to beguile the tedium of his
exile. Before his multitudinous possessions could be restored to
their native sphere, Thorn was himself again, and on his feet.
"Stay where you are Phil; I like to tramp, it seems like old times,
and I know you're tired. Just forget all this I've been saying, and
go on as before. Thank you, boys! thank you!" and with a grasp of
the two hands extended to him, he strode away along the path already
worn by his own restless feet.
"It's done him good, and I'm glad of that; but I'd like to see the
little baggage that bewitched the poor old boy, wouldn't you, Phil?"
"Hush! here's Flint."
"What's up naow? want me tew address the meetin', hey? I'm willin',
only the laugh's ruther ag'inst me, ef I tell that story; expect
yeu'll like it all the better fer that." Flint coiled up his long
limbs, put his hands in his pockets, chewed meditatively for a
moment, and then began with his slowest drawl--
"Waal, sir, it's pretty nigh ten year ago, I was damster daown tew
Oldtaown, clos't tew Banggore. My folks lived tew Bethel; there was
only the old man, and Aunt Siloam, keepin' house fer him, seein' as
I was the only chick he hed. I hedn't heared from 'em fer a long
spell, when there come a letter sayin' the old man was breakin' up.
He'd said it every spring fer a number er years, and I didn't mind
it no more'n the breakin' up er the river; not so much jest then;
fer the gret spring drive was comin' on, and my hands was tew full
to quit work all tew oncet. I sent word I'd be 'long fore a gret
while, and bymeby I went. I ought tew hev gone at fust; but they'd
sung aout 'Wolf!' so often I wasn't scared; an' sure 'nuff the wolf
did come at last. Father hed been dead an' berried a week when I got
there, and aunt was so mad she wouldn't write, nor scurcely speak
tew me fer a consider'ble spell. I didn't blame her a mite, and felt
jest the wust kind; so I give in every way, and fetched her raound.
Yeou see I hed a cousin who'd kind er took my place tew hum while I
was off, an' the old man hed left him a good slice er his money, an'
me the farm, hopin' to keep me there. He'd never liked the lumberin'
bizness, an' hankered arfter me a sight, I faound. Waal, seein' haow
'twas, I tried tew please him, late as it was; but ef there was
ennything I did spleen ag'inst, it was farmin, 'specially arfter the
smart times I'd ben hevin, up Oldtaown way. Yeou don't know nothin'
abaout it; but ef yeou want tew see high dewin's, jest hitch onto a
timber-drive an' go it daown along them lakes and rivers, say from
Kaumchenungamooth tew Punnobscot Bay. Guess yeou'd see a thing or
tew, an' find livin' on a log come as handy as ef yeou was born a
turtle.
