"You can't reproach yourself with neglect of that sort, Alec, for you
have done your duty faithfully by George's girl; and I envy you the
pride and happiness of having such a daughter, for she is that to
you," answered old Mac, unexpectedly betraying the paternal sort of
tenderness men seldom feel for their sons.
"I've tried, Mac, and I _am_ both proud and happy; but with every year
my anxiety seems to increase. I've done my best to fit Rose for what
may come, as far as I can foresee it; but now she must stand alone,
and all my care is powerless to keep her heart from aching, her life
from being saddened by mistakes, or thwarted by the acts of others. I
can only stand by, ready to share her joy and sorrow, and watch her
shape her life."
"Why, Alec, what is the child going to do, that you need look so
solemn?" exclaimed Mrs. Clara, who seemed to have assumed a sort of
right to Rose already.
"Hark! and let her tell you herself," answered Dr. Alec, as Rose's
voice was heard saying very earnestly,--
"Now you have all told your plans for the future, why don't you ask us
ours?"
"Because we know that there is only one thing for a pretty girl to
do,--break a dozen or so of hearts before she finds one to suit, then
marry and settle," answered Charlie, as if no other reply was
possible.
"That may be the case with many, but not with us; for Phebe and I
believe that it is as much a right and a duty for women to do
something with their lives as for men; and we are not going to be
satisfied with such frivolous parts as you give us," cried Rose, with
kindling eyes. "I mean what I say, and you cannot laugh me down. Would
_you_ be contented to be told to enjoy yourself for a little while,
then marry and do nothing more till you die?" she added, turning to
Archie.
"Of course not: that is only a part of a man's life," he answered
decidedly.
"A very precious and lovely part, but not _all_," continued Rose;
"neither should it be for a woman: for we've got minds and souls as
well as hearts; ambition and talents, as well as beauty and
accomplishments; and we want to live and learn as well as love and be
loved. I'm sick of being told that is all a woman is fit for! I won't
have any thing to do with love till I prove that I am something beside
a housekeeper and baby-tender!"
"Heaven preserve us! here's woman's rights with a vengeance!" cried
Charlie, starting up with mock horror, while the others regarded Rose
with mingled surprise and amusement, evidently fancying it all a
girlish outbreak.
"Ah, you needn't pretend to be shocked: you will be in earnest
presently; for this is only the beginning of my strong-mindedness,"
continued Rose, nothing daunted by the smiles of good-natured
incredulity or derision on the faces of her cousins. "I have made up
my mind not to be cheated out of the real things that make one good
and happy; and, just because I'm a rich girl, fold my hands and drift
as so many do. I haven't lived with Phebe all these years in vain: I
know what courage and self-reliance can do for one; and I sometimes
wish I hadn't a penny in the world so that I could go and earn my
bread with her, and be as brave and independent as she will be pretty
soon."
