"You are fitted for anything that is generous and good, and I'll stand
by you, no matter what you've chosen," cried Mac heartily, for this was
a new style of talk from a girl's lips, and he liked it immensely.
"Philanthropy is a generous, good, and beautiful profession, and I've
chosen it for mine because I have much to give. I'm only the steward
of the fortune Papa left me, and I think, if I use it wisely for the
happiness of others, it will be more blest than if I keep it all for
myself."
Very sweetly and simply was this said, but it was curious to see how
differently the various hearers received it.
Charlie shot a quick look at his mother, who exclaimed, as if in spite
of herself, "Now, Alec, are you going to let that girl squander a fine
fortune on all sorts of charitable nonsense and wild schemes for the
prevention of pauperism and crime?"
"'They who give to the poor lend to the Lord,' and practical
Christianity is the kind He loves the best," was all Dr. Alec answered,
but it silenced the aunts and caused even prudent Uncle Mac to think
with sudden satisfaction of certain secret investments he had made which
paid him no interest but the thanks of the poor.
Archie and Mac looked well pleased and promised their advice and
assistance with the enthusiasm of generous young hearts. Steve shook
his head, but said nothing, and the lads on the rug at once proposed
founding a hospital for invalid dogs and horses, white mice, and wounded
heroes.
"Don't you think that will be a better way for a woman to spend her life
than in dancing, dressing, and husband-hunting, Charlie?" asked Rose,
observing his silence and anxious for his approval.
"Very pretty for a little while, and very effective too, for I don't
know anything more captivating than a sweet girl in a meek little bonnet
going on charitable errands and glorifying poor people's houses with
a delightful mixture of beauty and benevolence. Fortunately, the dear
souls soon tire of it, but it's heavenly while it lasts."
Charlie spoke in a tone of mingled admiration and contempt, and smiled
a superior sort of smile, as if he understood all the innocent delusions
as well as the artful devices of the sex and expected nothing more from
them. It both surprised and grieved Rose, for it did not sound like
the Charlie she had left two years ago. But she only said, with a
reproachful look and a proud little gesture of head and hand, as if she
put the subject aside since it was not treated with respect: "I am sorry
you have so low an opinion of women. There was a time when you believed
in them sincerely."
"I do still, upon my word I do! They haven't a more devoted admirer
and slave in the world than I am. Just try me and see," cried Charlie,
gallantly kissing his hand to the sex in general.
