"Oh, but that is not the old way at all!" cried Rose, stepping back
in merry confusion while the audacious youth assumed an air of mild
surprise as he innocently asked: "Didn't we always say good night in
that way? I had an impression that we did and were to begin just as we
left off."
"Of course not. No power on earth would have bribed you to do it, as you
know well enough. I don't mind the first night, but we are too old for
that sort of thing now."
"I'll remember. It was the force of habit, I suppose, for I'm sure
I must have done it in former times, it seemed so natural. Coming,
Father!" and Mac retired, evidently convinced he was right.
"Dear old thing! He is as much a boy as ever, and that is such a
comfort, for some of the others have grown up very fast," said Rose to
herself, recalling Charlie's sentimental airs and Archie's beatified
expression while Phebe sang.
Chapter 2 OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES
"It is so good to be home again! I wonder how we ever made up our minds
to go away!" exclaimed Rose as she went roaming about the old house next
morning, full of the satisfaction one feels at revisiting familiar nooks
and corners and finding them unchanged.
"That we might have the pleasure of coming back again," answered Phebe,
walking down the hall beside her little mistress, as happy as she.
"Everything seems just as we left it, even to the rose leaves we used to
tuck in here," continued the younger girl, peeping into one of the tall
India jars that stood about the hall.
"Don't you remember how Jamie and Pokey used to play Forty Thieves with
them, and how you tried to get into that blue one and got stuck, and the
other boys found us before I could pull you out?" asked Phebe, laughing.
"Yes, indeed, and speaking of angels, one is apt to hear the rustling
of their wings," added Rose, as a shrill whistle came up the avenue
accompanied by the clatter of hoofs.
"It is the circus!" cried Phebe gaily as they both recalled the red cart
and the charge of the clan.
There was only one boy now, alas, but he made noise enough for half a
dozen, and before Rose could run to the door, Jamie came bouncing in
with a "shining morning face," a bat over his shoulder, a red and white
jockey cap on his head, one pocket bulging with a big ball, the other
overflowing with cookies, and his mouth full of the apple he was just
finishing off in hot haste.
"Morning! I just looked in to make sure you'd really come and see that
you were all right," he observed, saluting with bat and doffing the gay
cap with one effective twitch.
"Good morning, dear. Yes, we really are here, and getting to rights as
fast as possible. But it seems to me you are rather gorgeous, Jamie.
What do you belong to a fire company or a jockey club?" asked Rose,
turning up the once chubby face, which now was getting brown and square
about the chin.
