Rose turned to look at Steve and, with a sudden smile, beckoned to him.
He dropped his napkin and flew to obey the summons, for she was queen of
the hour, and he had openly announced his deathless loyalty.
"Tell the other boys to come here. I've a fancy to stand you all in a
row and look you over, as you did me that dreadful day when you nearly
frightened me out of my wits," she said, laughing at the memory of it as
she spoke.
They came in a body and, standing shoulder to shoulder, made such an
imposing array that the young commander was rather daunted for a moment.
But she had seen too much of the world lately to be abashed by a trifle,
and the desire to see a girlish test gave her courage to face the line
of smiling cousins with dignity and spirit.
"Now, I'm going to stare at you as you stared at me. It is my revenge on
you seven bad boys for entrapping one poor little girl and enjoying her
alarm. I'm not a bit afraid of you now, so tremble and beware!"
As she spoke, Rose looked up into Archie's face and nodded approvingly,
for the steady gray eyes met hers fairly and softened as they did so a
becoming change, for naturally they were rather keen than kind.
"A true Campbell, bless you!" she said, and shook his hand heartily as
she passed on.
Charlie came next, and here she felt less satisfied, though scarcely
conscious why, for, as she looked, there came a defiant sort of flash,
changing suddenly to something warmer than anger, stronger than pride,
making her shrink a little and say, hastily, "I don't find the Charlie I
left, but the Prince is there still, I see."
Turning to Mac with a sense of relief, she gently took off his
"winkers," as Jamie called them, and looked straight into the honest
blue eyes that looked straight back at her, full of a frank and friendly
affection that warmed her heart and made her own eyes brighten as
she gave back the glasses, saying, with a look and tone of cordial
satisfaction, "You are not changed, my dear old Mac, and I'm so glad of
that!"
"Now say something extra sweet to me, because I'm the flower of the
family," said Steve, twirling the blond moustache, which was evidently
the pride of his life.
Rose saw at a glance that Dandy deserved his name more than ever, and
promptly quenched his vanities by answering, with a provoking laugh,
"Then the name of the flower of the family is Cockscomb."
"Ah, ha! who's got it now?" jeered Will.
"Let us off easy, please," whispered Geordie, mindful that their turn
came next.
"You blessed beanstalks! I'm proud of you only don't grow quite out of
sight, or even be ashamed to look a woman in the face," answered Rose,
with a gentle pat on the cheek of either bashful young giant, for both
were red as peonies, though their boyish eyes were as clear and calm as
summer lakes.
