"It is very nice and pretty to see, but I don't know what people will
say when she goes into society with the rest of us. I do hope Rose won't
be very odd," said Annabel to herself as she went away to circulate
the depressing news that there was to be no grand ball and, saddest
disappointment of all, that Rose had not a single Paris costume with
which to refresh the eyes and rouse the envy of her amiable friends.
"Now I've seen or heard from all the boys but Charlie, and I suppose he
is too busy. I wonder what he is about," thought Rose, turning from the
hall door, whither she had courteously accompanied her guest.
The wish was granted a moment after, for, going into the parlor to
decide where some of her pictures should hang, she saw a pair of brown
boots at one end of the sofa, a tawny-brown head at the other, and
discovered that Charlie was busily occupied in doing nothing.
"The voice of the Bliss was heard in the land, so I dodged till she went
upstairs, and then took a brief siesta while waiting to pay my respects
to the distinguished traveler, Lady Hester Stanhope," he said, leaping
up to make his best bow.
"The voice of the sluggard would be a more appropriate quotation, I
think. Does Annabel still pine for you?" asked Rose, recalling certain
youthful jokes upon the subject of unrequited affections.
"Not a bit of it. Fun has cut me out, and the fair Annabella will be
Mrs. Tokio before the winter is over if I'm not much mistaken."
"What, little Fun See? How droll it seems to think of him grown up and
married to Annabel of all people! She never said a word about him, but
this accounts for her admiring my pretty Chinese things and being so
interested in Canton."
"Little Fun is a great swell now, and much enamored of our fat friend,
who will take to chopsticks whenever he says the word. I needn't ask how
you do, Cousin, for you beat that Aurora all hollow in the way of color.
I should have been up before, but I thought you'd like a good rest after
your voyage."
"I was running a race with Jamie before nine o'clock. What were you
doing, young man?"
"'Sleeping I dreamed, love, dreamed, love, of thee,'" began Charlie, but
Rose cut him short by saying as reproachfully as she could, while the
culprit stood regarding her with placid satisfaction: "You ought to have
been up and at work like the rest of the boys. I felt like a drone in
a hive of very busy bees when I saw them all hurrying off to their
business."
"But, my dear girl, I've got no business. I'm making up my mind, you
see, and do the ornamental while I'm deciding. There always ought to
be one gentleman in a family, and that seems to be rather my line,"
answered Charlie, posing for the character with an assumption of languid
elegance which would have been very effective if his twinkling eyes had
not spoilt it.
