Dismay fell upon the unfortunates who remained: but their confusion
was soon ended; for Rose, with a look which they had never seen upon
her face before, dismissed them with the brief command, "Break
ranks,--the review is over," and walked away to Phebe.
"Confound that boy! You ought to shut him up, or gag him!" fumed
Charlie, irritably.
"He shall be attended to," answered poor Archie, who was trying to
bring up the little marplot with the success of most parents and
guardians.
"The whole thing was deuced disagreeable," growled Steve, who felt
that he had not distinguished himself in the late engagement.
"Truth generally is," observed Mac dryly, as he strolled away with his
odd smile.
As if he suspected discord somewhere, Dr. Alec proposed music at this
crisis; and the young people felt that it was a happy thought.
"I want you to hear both my birds; for they have improved immensely,
and I am very proud of them," said the Doctor, twirling up the stool
and pulling out the old music-books.
"I had better come first, for after you have heard the nightingale you
won't care for the canary," added Rose, wishing to put Phebe at her
ease; for she sat among them looking like a picture, but rather shy
and silent, remembering the days when her place was in the kitchen.
"I'll give you some of the dear old songs you used to like so much.
This was a favorite, I think;" and sitting down she sang the first
familiar air that came, and sang it well in a pleasant, but by no
means finished, manner.
It chanced to be "The Birks of Aberfeldie," and vividly recalled the
time when Mac was ill, and she took care of him. The memory was sweet
to her, and involuntarily her eye wandered in search of him. He was
not far away, sitting just as he used to sit when she soothed his most
despondent moods,--astride of a chair with his head down on his arms,
as if the song suggested the attitude. Her heart quite softened to him
as she looked, and she decided to forgive _him_ if no one else; for
she was sure that he had no mercenary plans about her tiresome money.
Charlie had assumed a pensive air, and fixed his fine eyes upon her
with an expression of tender admiration, which made her laugh in spite
of all her efforts to seem unconscious of it. She was both amused and
annoyed at his very evident desire to remind her of certain
sentimental passages in the last year of their girl and boyhood, and
to change what she had considered a childish joke into romantic
earnest. This did not suit her; for, young as she was, Rose had very
serious ideas of love, and had no intention of being beguiled into
even a flirtation with her handsome cousin.
So Charlie attitudinized unnoticed, and was getting rather out of
temper when Phebe began to sing; and he forgot all about himself in
admiration of her. It took every one by surprise: for two years of
foreign training added to several at home had worked wonders; and the
beautiful voice that used to warble cheerily over pots and kettles,
now rang out melodiously or melted to a mellow music that woke a
sympathetic thrill in those who listened. Rose glowed with pride as
she accompanied her friend; for Phebe was in her own world now,--a
lovely world where no depressing memory of poor-house or kitchen,
ignorance or loneliness, came to trouble her; a happy world where she
could be herself, and rule others by the magic of her sweet gift.
