"Sing away, my lark, and let papa hear you, for he seldom gets a chance
nowadays."
"Then he must stay and applaud me, else I shall think that speech only
an empty compliment," answered Portia, as she beckoned with her most
winsome smile.
The Judge never dreamed that his good angel spoke; but he saw his
handsome girl beaming at him from the music stool, and strolled in,
meaning to go back when the song ended.
But the blue charmer in the parlor proved more potent than the red one
in the dining-room, and he sat on, placidly sipping the excellent
coffee, artfully supplied by his wife, quite unconscious of the little
plot to rob him of the harmful indulgence which too often made his
evenings a blank, and his mornings a vain attempt to revive the spirits
that once kept increasing years from seeming burdensome.
That was the beginning of Portia's home mission; and from that hour she
devoted herself to it, thinking of no reward, for such "secret service"
could receive neither public sympathy nor praise.
It was not an easy task, as she soon found, in spite of the stanch and
skilful ally who planned the attacks she dutifully made upon the enemy
threatening their domestic peace.
When music ceased to have charms, and the Judge declared he _must_ get
his "forty winks" after dinner, Portia boldly declared that she would
stay and see that he had them comfortably. So papa laughed and
submitted, took a brief nap, and woke in such good-humor that he made no
complaint on finding the daughter replacing the decanter.
This answered for a while; and when its effacacy seemed about to fail,
unexpected help appeared; for mamma's eyes began to trouble her, and
Portia proposed that her father should entertain the invalid in the
evening, while she served her through the day.
This plan worked capitally, for the Judge loved his good wife almost as
much as she deserved, and devoted himself to her so faithfully that the
effort proved a better stimulant than any his well-stocked cellar could
supply.
Dr. Hall prescribed exercise and cheerful society for his new patient,
and in seeing that these instructions were obeyed the Judge got the
benefit of them, and found no time for solitary wine-bibbing.
"I do believe I'm growing young again, for the old dulness is quite
gone, and all this work and play does not seem to tire me a bit," he
said, after an unusually lively evening with the congenial guests Portia
took care to bring about him.
"But it must be very stupid for you, my dear, as we old folks have all
the fun. Why don't you invite the young people here oftener?" he added,
as his eye fell on Portia, gazing thoughtfully into the fire.
"I wish I dared tell you why," she answered wistfully.
"Afraid of your old papa?" and he looked both surprised and grieved.
"I won't be, for you are the kindest father that ever a girl had, and I
know you'll help me, as you always do, papa. I don't dare ask my young
friends here because I'm not willing to expose some of them to
temptation," began Portia, bravely.
