At first the young reformers were disappointed that every one was not as
enthusiastic as themselves, and as ready to dare and do for the cause
they had espoused. But wiser heads than those on their pretty shoulders
curbed their impetuosity, and suggested various ways of gently
insinuating the new idea, and making it so attractive that others would
find it impossible to resist; for sunshine often wins when bluster makes
us wrap our prejudices closer around us, like the traveller in the
fable.
Portia baited _her_ trap with Roman parties,--for she had been
abroad,--and made them so delightful that no one complained when only
cake and tea was served (that being the style in the Eternal City), but
went and did likewise.
Artful Polly set up a comic newspaper, to amuse Ned, who was an invalid
nearly all winter, and in it freed her mind on many subjects in such a
witty way that the "Pollyanthus," as her brother named it, circulated
through their set, merrily sowing good seed; for young folks will
remember a joke longer than a sermon, and this editor made all hers
tell.
Pris was not behindhand in her efforts, but worked in a different way,
and got up a branch society among her little pupils, called "The Water
Babies." That captivated the mothers at once, and even the fathers found
it difficult to enjoy their wine with blue eyes watching them wistfully
over the rims of silver mugs; while the few topers of the town hid
themselves like night-birds flying from the sun, when, led by their
gentle General, that little army of innocents marched through the
streets with banners flying, blithe voices singing, rosy faces shining,
and childish hearts full of the sweet delusion that _they_ could save
the world.
Of course the matrons discussed these events at the sewing-circle, and
much talk went on of a more useful sort than the usual gossip about
servants, sickness, dress, and scandal.
Mrs. Judge waxed eloquent upon the subject, and, being president, every
one listened with due respect. Mrs. Ward seconded all her motions, for
this lady had much surprised the town, not only by installing Phil as
family physician, but by coming out strong for temperance. Somebody had
told her all about the girls' labor of love, and she had felt ashamed to
be outdone by them; so, like a conscientious woman, she decided to throw
her influence into the right scale, take time by the forelock, and help
to make the town a safer place for her five sons to grow up in than it
was then.
These two leading ladies kept the ball rolling so briskly that others
were soon converted and fell into rank, till a dozen or so were heartily
in earnest. And then the job was half done; for in a great measure women
make society what they choose to have it.
"We are told that home is our sphere, and advised to keep in it; so let
us see that it is what it should be, and then we shall have proved our
fitness for larger fields of labor, if we care to claim them," said Mrs.
Judge, cutting out red flannel with charitable energy, on one occasion.
