"I was only day-dreaming; but I mean this one shall come true," and Ned
rose straight up, with an energy that surprised his sister.
"Come and have your lunch, for it's time. Which will you take, Mrs.
Neal's wine-jelly or my custard?" asked Polly, settling him in his big
chair.
To her astonishment, Ned pitched the little mould of amber jelly into
the fire, and tried to eat the custard with his left hand.
"My dear boy, have you lost your senses?" she ejaculated.
"No; I've just found them," he answered, with a flash of the eye, that
seemed to enlighten Polly without more words.
Taking her usual seat on the arm of the chair, she fed her big nursling
in silence, till a sigh made her ask tenderly,--
"Isn't it right? I put in lots of sugar because you like it sweet."
"All the sugar in the world won't sweeten it to me, Polly; for there's a
bitter drop at the bottom of all my cups. Will said your tear shone like
a diamond in his little pitcher, and well it might. But you can't cry
happy tears over me, though I've made you shed enough sad ones to fill
the big punch-bowl."
Ned tried to laugh, but somehow the custard choked him; and Polly laid
the poor, cropped head on her shoulder for a minute, saying softly,--
"Never mind, dear, I wouldn't think about the old troubles now."
She got no farther, for with a left-handed thump that made all the cups
dance wildly on the table, Ned cried out,--
"But I _will_ think about the old troubles, for I don't intend to have
any new ones of that sort! Do you suppose I'll see that snip of a boy
standing up for what is right, and not have the pluck to do the same? Do
you suppose I'll make my own father ashamed of me more than once? Or let
the dearest little girl in the world wear herself out over me, and I not
try to thank her in the way she likes best? Polly, my dear, you can't be
as proud of your elder brother as you are of the younger, but you shall
never have cause to blush for him again; _never_, sir, _never_!"
Ned lifted his hand for another emphatic thump, but changed his mind,
and embraced his sister as closely as one arm could do it.
"I ought to have a badge if I'm going to belong to your select society;
but I don't know any lady who will give me an ear-ring or a cream-pot,"
said Ned, when the conversation got round again to the cheerful side of
the question.
"I'll give you something better than either," answered Polly, as she
transferred a plain locket from her watch-guard to the one lying on the
table.
Ned knew that a beloved face and a lock of gray hair were inside; and
when his sister added, with a look full of sweet significance, "For her
sake, dear," he answered manfully,--
