"I'll try, Polly!"
CHAPTER V.
_WHAT PRIS DID._
Priscilla, meantime, was racking her brain to discover how she could
help Philip; for since she had broken off her engagement no one spoke of
him to her, and she could only judge of how things were going with him
by what she saw and heard as she went about her daily task.
Pris kept school, and the road which she must take twice a day led
directly by the office where Phil was studying medicine with old Dr.
Buffum. Formerly she always smiled and nodded as she passed, or stopped
to chat a moment with the student, who usually chanced to be taking a
whiff of fresh air at that instant. Little notes flew in and out, and
often her homeward walk was cheered by a companion, who taught the
pretty teacher lessons she found it very easy to learn.
A happy time! But it was all over now, and brief glimpses of a brown
head bent above a desk near that window was the only solace poor Pris
had. The head never turned as she went by, but she felt sure that Phil
knew her step, and found that moment, as she did, the hardest of the
day.
She longed to relent, but dared not yet. He longed to show that he
repented, but found it difficult without a sign of encouragement. So
they went their separate ways, seldom meeting, for Phil stuck to his
books with dogged resolution, and Pris had no heart for society.
Of course the affair was discussed with all the exasperating freedom of
a country town, some blaming Pris for undue severity, some praising her
spirit, and some, friends,--not gossips,--predicting that both would be
the better for the trial, which would not separate them long. Of this
latter class were Portia and Polly, who felt it their duty to lend a
hand when matters reached a certain point.
"Pris, dear, may I tell you something that I think you'd be glad to
know?" began Polly, joining her friend one afternoon, as she went home
weary and alone.
"_You_ may tell me any thing," and Pris took her arm as if she felt the
need of sympathy.
"You know Dr. Buffum let Phil help with Ned, so we have seen a good deal
of him, and that is how I found out what I've got to tell you."
"He spoke of me, then?" whispered Pris, eagerly.
"Not a word till Ned made him. My boy is fond of your boy, and they had
confidences which seem to have done them both good. Of course Ned didn't
tell me all about it, as _we_ tell things (men never do, they are so
proud and queer), but he said this,--
"'Look here, Polly, you must be very kind to Phil, and stand by him all
you can, or he will go down. He is doing his best, and will hold on as
long as he can, but a fellow _must_ have comfort and encouragement of
some sort, and if he don't get the right kind he'll try the wrong.'"
