"O Polly! you will stand by him?"
"I have; for I just took Phil in a weakish moment, and found out all I
wanted to know. Ned is right and you are wrong, Pris,--not in giving
back the ring, but in seeming to cast him off entirely. He does not
deserve that, for he was not to blame half so much as you think. But he
won't excuse himself, for he feels that you are unjust; yet he loves you
dearly, and you could do any thing with him, if you chose."
"I do choose, Polly; but how _can_ I marry a man whom I cannot trust?"
began Pris, sadly.
"Now, my child, I'm going to talk to you like a mother, for I've had
experience with boys, and I know how to manage them," interrupted Polly,
with such a charmingly maternal air that Pris laughed in spite of her
trouble. "Be quiet and listen to the words of wisdom," continued her
friend, seriously.
"Since I've taken care of Ned, I've learned a great deal, for the poor
lad was so sick and sorry he couldn't shut his heart against me any
more. So now I understand how to help and comfort him, for hearts are
very much alike, Pris, and all need lots of love and patience to keep
them good and happy. Ned told me his troubles, and I made up my mind
that as _we_ don't have so many temptations as boys, we should do all we
can to help them, and make them the sort of men we can both love and
trust."
"You are right, Polly. I've often thought how wrong it is for us to sit
safe and silent while we know things are going wrong, just because it
isn't considered proper for us to speak out. Then when the harm is done
we are expected to turn virtuously away from the poor soul we might
perhaps have saved if we had dared. God does not do so to us, and we
ought not to do so to those over whom we have so much power," said Pris,
with a heart full of sad and tender memories.
"We won't!" cried Polly, firmly. "We began in play, but we will go on in
earnest, and use our youth, our beauty, our influence for something
nobler than merely pleasing men's eyes, or playing with their hearts.
We'll help them to be good, and brave, and true, and in doing this we
shall become better women, and worthier to be loved, I know."
"Why, Polly, you are quite inspired!" and Pris stopped in the snowy road
to look at her.
"It isn't all _my_ wisdom. I've talked with father as well as Ned and
Phil, and they have done me good. I've discovered that confidence is
better than compliments, and friendship much nicer than flirting; so I'm
going to turn over a new leaf, and use my good gifts for higher ends."
"Dear thing, what a comfort you are!" said Pris, pressing Polly's hands,
and looking into her bright face with grateful eyes. "You have given me
courage to do my duty, and I'll follow your example as fast as I can.
Don't come any farther, please: I'd better be alone when I pass Phil's
window, for I'm going to nod and smile, as I used to in the happy time.
Then he will see that I don't cast him off and leave him to 'go down'
for want of help, but am still his friend until I dare be more."
