The old lady's black eyes twinkled with fun, and the children laughed
with her, till Walt caused a lull by asking:--
"Where do the wolves come in, grandma?"
"Right along, dear; I'm not likely to forget 'em, for they 'most cost me
my life, to say nothing of my new slippers. There was great rejoicing
over Joe, and every one wanted to do something to honor our hero; for he
had done well, we found out, when the General heard his story. We had a
great dinner, and Judge Mullikin gave a supper; but Major Belknap was
bound to outshine the rest, so he invited all the young folks over to
his house, nigh ten miles away, to a ball, and we all went. I made
myself fine, you may believe, and wore a pair of blue kid slippers, with
mother's best buckles to set 'em off. Joe had a new uniform, and was an
elegant figure of a man, I do assure you. He couldn't dance, poor dear,
being still very lame: but I was a proud girl when I marched into that
ball-room, on the arm of my limping beau. The men cheered, and the
ladies stood up in chairs to see him, and he was as red as my ribbons,
and I could hardly keep from crying, as I held him up,--the floor being
slippery as glass with the extra waxing it had got.
"I declared I wouldn't dance, because Joe couldn't; but he made me,
saying he could see me better; so I footed it till two o'clock, soon
forgetting all my sorrow and my good resolutions as well. I wanted to
show Joe that I was as much a favorite as ever, though I'd lived like a
widow for a year. Young folks will be giddy, and I hope these girls will
take warning by me and behave better when their time comes. There mayn't
be any wolves to sober 'em, but trouble of some sort always follows
foolish actions; so be careful, my dears, and behave with propriety when
you 'come out,' as you call it nowadays."
Grandma held up a warning forefinger at the girls, and shook her head
impressively, feeling that the moral of her tale must be made clear
before she went on. But the lassies blushed a little, and the lads
looked all impatience, so the dear old lady introduced the wolves as
quickly as she could.
"About half-past two, Joe and I drove off home with four fine hams in
the bottom of the sleigh, sent by the Major to our mothers. It was a
bitter-cold February night, with just light enough to see the road, and
splendid sleighing; so we went along at a good pace, till we came to the
great woods. They are all gone now, and the woollen mills stand there,
but then they were a thick forest of pines, and for more than three
miles the road led through them. In former days Indians had lurked
there; bears and foxes were still shot, and occasionally wolves were
seen, when cold weather drove them to seek food near the sheep-folds and
barn-yards.
