"Guess I can afford to give you all you'll make this trip," answered his
father, in a tone that made the brothers laugh again.
"Boys, don't pester Eli. Every one hasn't a call to farmin', and it's
wal to foller the leadin's of Providence when they come along," said the
mother, stroking the smooth, brown head at her knee; for Eli always went
to her footstool with his sorrows and his joys.
So it was settled, and next day the boy, in his home-spun and home-made
Sunday best, set off to see his employer and secure the job. He got it,
and for three days trudged up and down the steep roads, calling at every
house with a sample of his book, the Rev. John Flavel's treatise on
"Keeping the Heart." Eli's winning face, modest manner, and earnest
voice served him well, and he got many names; for books were scarce in
those days, and a pious work was a treasure to many a good soul who
found it difficult to keep the heart strong and cheerful in troublous
times.
Then the books were to be delivered, and, anxious to save his small
earnings, Eli hired no horse to transport his load, but borrowed a
stout, green shawl from his mother, and, with his pack on his back,
marched bravely away to finish his task. His wages were spent in a new
prayer-book for his mother, smart handkerchief-pins for the faithful
sisters, and a good store of paper for himself.
This trip was so successful that he was seized with a strong desire to
try a more ambitious and extended one; for these glimpses of the world
showed him how much he had to learn, and how pleasantly he could pick up
knowledge in these flights.
"What be you a-brewdin' over now, boy? Gettin' ready for the clock shop?
It's 'most time for winter work, and Terry says you do pretty wal at
puttin' together," said the farmer, a day or two after the boy's return,
as they sat at dinner, all helping themselves from the large pewter
platter heaped with pork and vegetables.
"I was wishin' I could go South with Gad Upson. He's been twice with
clocks and notions, and wants a mate. Hoadley fits him out and pays him
a good share if he does well. Couldn't I go along? I hate that old shop,
and I know I can do something better than put together the insides of
cheap clocks."
Eli spoke eagerly, and gave his mother an imploring look which brought
her to second the motion at once, her consent having been already won.
The brothers stared as if Eli had proposed to go up in a balloon, for to
them the South seemed farther off than Africa does nowadays. The father
had evidently been secretly prepared, for he showed no surprise, and
merely paused a moment to look at his ambitious son with a glance in
which amusement and reproach were mingled.
"When a hen finds she's hatched a duck's egg, it's no use for her to
cackle; that ducklin' will take to the water in spite on her, and paddle
off, nobody knows where. Go ahead, boy, and when you get enough of
junketin' 'round the world, come home and fall to work."
