The women knit and sewed Sundays as well as weekdays, to supply the call
for clothes; the men emptied their pockets freely, glad to give; and the
minister, after preaching like a Christian soldier, took off his coat
and packed boxes of comforts like a tender father.
"More lint and bandages called for, and I do believe we've torn and
picked up every old rag in the town," said one busy lady to another, as
several sat together making comfort-bags in the third year of the long
struggle.
"I have cleared my garret of nearly everything in it, and only wish I
had more to give," answered one of the patriotic Barrett mothers.
"We can't buy anything so soft and good as worn out sheets and
table-cloths. New ones wont do, or I'd cut up every one of mine," said a
newly married Wheeler, sewing for dear life, as she remembered the many
cousins gone to the war.
"I think I shall have to give our Revolutionary table-cloth. It's old
enough, and soft as silk, and I'm sure my blessed grandmother would
think that it couldn't make a better end," spoke up white-headed Madam
Hubbard; for Tabby Tarbell had married one of that numerous and worthy
race.
"Oh, you wouldn't cut up that famous cloth, would you?" cried the
younger woman.
"Yes, I will. It's in rags, and when I'm gone no one will care for it.
Folks don't seem to remember what the women did in those days, so it's
no use keeping relics of 'em," answered the old lady, who would have
owned herself mistaken if she could have looked forward to 1876, when
the town celebrated its centennial, and proudly exhibited the little
scissors with which Mrs. Barrett cut paper for cartridges, among other
ancient trophies of that earlier day.
So the ancient cloth was carefully made into a boxful of the finest lint
and softest squares to lay on wounds, and sent to one of the Concord
women who had gone as a nurse.
"Here's a treasure!" she said, as she came to it among other comforts
newly arrived from home. "Just what I want for my brave Rebel and poor
little Johnny Bullard."
The "brave Rebel" was a Southern man who had fought well and was badly
wounded in many ways, yet never complained; and in the midst of great
suffering was always so courteous, patient, and courageous, that the men
called him "our gentleman," and tried to show how much they respected so
gallant a foe. John Bullard was an English drummer-boy, who had been
through several battles, stoutly drumming away in spite of bullets and
cannon-balls; cheering many a camp-fire with his voice, for he sang like
a blackbird, and was always merry, always plucky, and so great a
favorite in his regiment, that all mourned for "little Johnny" when his
right arm was shot off at Gettysburg. It was thought he would die; but
he pulled through the worst of it, and was slowly struggling back to
health, still trying to be gay, and beginning to chirp feebly now and
then, like a convalescent bird.
