Quietly transferring the note to the fire with the wrapper of the
magazine, he dismissed the matter from his mind and left Mrs. Snowdon
to play detective as she pleased, while he busied himself about his
own affairs.
It was a clear, bright December day, and when the young people separated
to prepare for a ride, while the general and the major sunned themselves
on the terrace, Lady Treherne said to her nephew, "I am going for an
airing in the pony carriage. Will you be my escort, Maurice?"
"With pleasure," replied the young man, well knowing what was in
store for him.
My lady was unusually taciturn and grave, yet seemed anxious to say
something which she found difficult to utter. Treherne saw this, and
ended an awkward pause by dashing boldly into the subject which
occupied both.
"I think you want to say something to me about Tavie, Aunt. Am I right?"
"Yes."
"Then let me spare you the pain of beginning, and prove my sincerity by
openly stating the truth, as far as I am concerned. I love her very
dearly, but I am not mad enough to dream of telling her so. I know that
it is impossible, and I relinquish my hopes. Trust me. I will keep
silent and see her marry Annon without a word of complaint, if you will
it. I see by her altered manner that you have spoken to her, and that my
little friend and nurse is to be mine no longer. Perhaps you are wise,
but if you do this on my account, it is in vain--the mischief is done,
and while I live I shall love my cousin. If you do it to spare her, I am
dumb, and will go away rather than cause her a care or pain."
"Do you really mean this, Maurice?" And Lady Treherne looked at him with
a changed and softened face.
Turning upon her, Treherne showed her a countenance full of suffering
and sincerity, of resignation and resolve, as he said earnestly, "I do
mean it; prove me in any way you please. I am not a bad fellow, Aunt,
and I desire to be better. Since my misfortune I've had time to test
many things, myself among others, and in spite of many faults, I do
cherish the wish to keep my soul honest and true, even though my body be
a wreck. It is easy to say these things, but in spite of temptation, I
think I can stand firm, if you trust me."
"My dear boy, I do trust you, and thank you gratefully for this
frankness. I never forget that I owe Jasper's life to you, and never
expect to repay that debt. Remember this when I seem cold or unkind, and
remember also that I say now, had you been spared this affliction, I
would gladly have given you my girl. But--"
"But, Aunt, hear one thing," broke in Treherne. "They tell me that any
sudden and violent shock of surprise, joy, or sorrow may do for me what
they hope time will achieve. I said nothing of this, for it is but a
chance; yet, while there is any hope, need I utterly renounce Octavia?"
