"Oh, a little silver one like the key of my piano, or the black cabinet.
She woke and was very angry to find me meddling."
"What did it belong to?" asked Paul.
"Her treasure box, she said, but I don't know where or what that is, and
I dare not ask any more, for she forbade my speaking to her about it.
Poor Mamma! I'm always troubling her in some way or other."
With a penitent sigh, Lillian tied up her flowers and handed them to
Paul to carry. As she did so, the change in his face struck her.
"How grim and old you look," she exclaimed. "Have I said anything that
troubles you?"
"No, Miss Lillian. I'm only thinking."
"Then I wish you wouldn't think, for you get a great wrinkle in your
forehead, your eyes grow almost black, and your mouth looks fierce. You
are a very odd person, Paul; one minute as gay as any boy, and the next
as grave and stern as a man with a deal of work to do."
"I _have_ got a deal of work to do, so no wonder I look old and grim."
"What work, Paul?"
"To make my fortune and win my lady."
When Paul spoke in that tone and wore that look, Lillian felt as if they
had changed places, and he was the master and she the servant. She
wondered over this in her childish mind, but proud and willful as she
was, she liked it, and obeyed him with unusual meekness when he
suggested that it was time to return. As he rode silently beside her,
she stole covert glances at him from under her wide hat brim, and
studied his unconscious face as she had never done before. His lips
moved now and then but uttered no audible sound, his black brows were
knit, and once his hand went to his breast as if he thought of the
little sweetheart whose picture lay there.
He's got a trouble. I wish he'd tell me and let me help him if I can.
I'll make him show me that miniature someday, for I'm interested in that
girl, thought Lillian with a pensive sigh.
As he held his hand for her little foot in dismounting her at the hall
door, Paul seemed to have shaken off his grave mood, for he looked up
and smiled at her with his blithest expression. But Lillian appeared to
be the thoughtful one now and with an air of dignity, very pretty and
becoming, thanked her young squire in a stately manner and swept into
the house, looking tall and womanly in her flowing skirts.
Paul laughed as he glanced after her and, flinging himself onto his
horse, rode away to the stables at a reckless pace, as if to work off
some emotion for which he could find no other vent.
"Here's a letter for you, lad, all the way from some place in Italy. Who
do you know there?" said Bedford, as the boy came back.
