"It is hard to refuse, and yet I cannot think it wise to build upon a
chance so slight. Once let her have you, and both are made unhappy, if
the hope fail. No, Maurice, it is better to be generous, and leave her
free to make her own happiness elsewhere. Annon loves her, she is
heart-whole, and will soon learn to love him, if you are silent. My poor
boy, it seems cruel, but I must say it."
"Shall I go away, Aunt?" was all his answer, very firmly uttered, though
his lips were white.
"Not yet, only leave them to themselves, and hide your trouble if you
can. Yet, if you prefer, you shall go to town, and Benson shall see that
you are comfortable. Your health will be a reason, and I will come, or
write often, if you are homesick. It shall depend on you, for I want to
be just and kind in this hard case. You shall decide."
"Then I will stay. I can hide my love; and to see them together will
soon cease to wound me, if Octavia is happy."
"So let it rest then, for a time. You shall miss your companion as
little as possible, for I will try to fill her place. Forgive me,
Maurice, and pity a mother's solicitude, for these two are the last of
many children, and I am a widow now."
Lady Treherne's voice faltered, and if any selfish hope or plan
lingered in her nephew's mind, that appeal banished it and touched his
better nature. Pressing her hand he said gently, "Dear Aunt, do not
lament over me. I am one set apart for afflictions, yet I will not be
conquered by them. Let us forget my youth and be friendly counselors
together for the good of the two whom we both love. I must say a word
about Jasper, and you will not press me to explain more than I can
without breaking my promise."
"Thank you, thank you! It is regarding that woman, I know. Tell me all
you can; I will not be importunate, but I disliked her the instant I saw
her, beautiful and charming as she seems."
"When my cousin and I were in Paris, just before my illness, we met her.
She was with her father then, a gay old man who led a life of pleasure,
and was no fit guardian for a lovely daughter. She knew our story and,
having fascinated both, paused to decide which she would accept: Jasper,
for his title, or me, for my fortune. This was before my uncle changed
his will, and I believed myself his heir; but, before she made her
choice, something (don't ask me what, if you please) occurred to send us
from Paris. On our return voyage we were wrecked, and then came my
illness, disinheritance, and helplessness. Edith Dubarry heard the
story, but rumor reported it falsely, and she believed both of us had
lost the fortune. Her father died penniless, and in a moment of despair
she married the general, whose wealth surrounds her with the luxury she
loves, and whose failing health will soon restore her liberty--"
