The instant her son approached Mrs. Snowdon, Madame Mere grew anxious,
and leaving Octavia to her friends and lover, she watched Jasper. But
her surveillance availed little, for she could neither see nor hear
anything amiss, yet could not rid herself of the feeling that some
mutual understanding existed between them. When the party broke up for
the night, she lingered till all were gone but her son and nephew.
"Well, Madame Ma Mere, what troubles you?" asked Sir Jasper, as she
looked anxiously into his face before bestowing her good-night kiss.
"I cannot tell, yet I feel ill at ease. Remember, my son, that you are
the pride of my heart, and any sin or shame of yours would kill me. Good
night, Maurice." And with a stately bow she swept away.
Lounging with both elbows on the low chimneypiece, Sir Jasper smiled at
his mother's fears, and said to his cousin, the instant they were alone,
"She is worried about E.S. Odd, isn't it, what instinctive antipathies
women take to one another?"
"Why did you ask E.S. here?" demanded Treherne.
"My dear fellow, how could I help it? My mother wanted the general, my
father's friend, and of course his wife must be asked also. I couldn't
tell my mother that the lady had been a most arrant coquette, to put it
mildly, and had married the old man in a pet, because my cousin and I
declined to be ruined by her."
"You _could_ have told her what mischief she makes wherever she goes,
and for Octavia's sake have deferred the general's visit for a time. I
warn you, Jasper, harm will come of it."
"To whom, you or me?"
"To both, perhaps, certainly to you. She was disappointed once when she
lost us both by wavering between your title and my supposed fortune. She
is miserable with the old man, and her only hope is in his death, for he
is very feeble. You are free, and doubly attractive now, so beware, or
she will entangle you before you know it."
"Thanks, Mentor. I've no fear, and shall merely amuse myself for a
week--they stay no longer." And with a careless laugh, Sir Jasper
strolled away.
"Much mischief may be done in a week, and this is the beginning of it,"
muttered Treherne, as he raised himself to look under the bronze vase
for the note. It was gone!
Chapter III
WHO WAS IT?
Who had taken it? This question tormented Treherne all that sleepless
night. He suspected three persons, for only these had approached the
fire after the note was hidden. He had kept his eye on it, he thought,
till the stir of breaking up. In that moment it must have been removed
by the major, Frank Annon, or my lady; Sir Jasper was out of the
question, for he never touched an ornament in the drawing room since he
had awkwardly demolished a whole _etagere_ of costly trifles, to
his mother's and sister's great grief. The major evidently suspected
something, Annon was jealous, and my lady would be glad of a pretext to
remove her daughter from his reach. Trusting to his skill in reading
faces, he waited impatiently for morning, resolving to say nothing to
anyone but Mrs. Snowdon, and from her merely to inquire what the note
contained.
