  "Her speech," he said, "hath caused this pain.
  Easier I count it to explain
  The jargon of the howling main,
  "Or, stretched beside some babbling brook,
  To con, with inexpressive look,
  An unintelligible book."
  Low spake the voice within his head,
  In words imagined more than said,
  Soundless as ghost's intended tread:
  "If thou art duller than before,
  Why quittedst thou the voice of lore?
  Why not endure, expecting more?"
  "Rather than that," he groaned aghast,
  "I'd writhe in depths of cavern vast,
  Some loathly vampire's rich repast."
[Illustration: "HE GROANED AGHAST"]
  "'Twere hard," it answered, "themes immense
  To coop within the narrow fence
  That rings _thy_ scant intelligence."
  "Not so," he urged, "nor once alone:
  But there was something in her tone
  That chilled me to the very bone.
  "Her style was anything but clear,
  And most unpleasantly severe;
  Her epithets were very queer.
  "And yet, so grand were her replies,
  I could not choose but deem her wise;
  I did not dare to criticise;
  "Nor did I leave her, till she went
  So deep in tangled argument
  That all my powers of thought were spent."
  A little whisper inly slid,
  "Yet truth is truth: you know you did."
  A little wink beneath the lid.
  And, sickened with excess of dread,
  Prone to the dust he bent his head,
  And lay like one three-quarters dead.
  The whisper left him--like a breeze
  Lost in the depths of leafy trees--
  Left him by no means at his ease.
  Once more he weltered in despair,
  With hands, through denser-matted hair,
  More tightly clenched than then they were.
  When, bathed in Dawn of living red,
  Majestic frowned the mountain head,
  "Tell me my fault," was all he said.
  When, at high Noon, the blazing sky
  Scorched in his head each haggard eye,
  Then keenest rose his weary cry.
  And when at Eve the unpitying sun
  Smiled grimly on the solemn fun,
  "Alack," he sighed, "what _have_ I done?"
[Illustration: "TORTURED, UNAIDED, AND ALONE"]
  But saddest, darkest was the sight,
  When the cold grasp of leaden Night
  Dashed him to earth, and held him tight.
  Tortured, unaided, and alone,
  Thunders were silence to his groan,
  Bagpipes sweet music to its tone:
  "What? Ever thus, in dismal round,
  Shall Pain and Mystery profound
  Pursue me like a sleepless hound,
  "With crimson-dashed and eager jaws,
  Me, still in ignorance of the cause,
  Unknowing what I broke of laws?"
  The whisper to his ear did seem
  Like echoed flow of silent stream,
  Or shadow of forgotten dream,
  The whisper trembling in the wind:
  "Her fate with thine was intertwined,"
  So spake it in his inner mind:
[Illustration: "A SCARED DULLARD, GIBBERING LOW"]
  "Each orbed on each a baleful star:
  Each proved the other's blight and bar:
  Each unto each were best, most far:
  "Yea, each to each was worse than foe:
  Thou, a scared dullard, gibbering low,
  AND SHE, AN AVALANCHE OF WOE!"
TEMA CON VARIAZIONI.
[Why is it that Poetry has never yet been subjected to that process of
Dilution which has proved so advantageous to her sister-art Music? The
Diluter gives us first a few notes of some well-known Air, then a dozen
bars of his own, then a few more notes of the Air, and so on alternately:
thus saving the listener, if not from all risk of recognising the melody
at all, at least from the too-exciting transports which it might produce
in a more concentrated form. The process is termed "setting" by Composers,
and any one, that has ever experienced the emotion of being unexpectedly
set down in a heap of mortar, will recognise the truthfulness of this
happy phrase.
