This will puzzle you a little, I expect.  Evidently you must put
a red counter SOMEWHERE in the x-half of the cupboard, since you
know there are SOME new Cakes.  But you must not put it into the
LEFT-HAND compartment, since you do not know them to be NICE: nor
may you put it into the RIGHT-HAND one, since you do not know them
to be NOT-NICE.
What, then, are you to do?  I think the best way out of the
difficulty is to place the red counter ON THE DIVISION-LINE between
the xy-compartment and the xy'-compartment.  This I shall represent
(as I always put '1' where you are to put a red counter) by the
diagram
                      -----------
                     |     |     |
                     |    -1-    |
                     |     |     |
                      -----------
Our ingenious American cousins have invented a phrase to express
the position of a man who wants to join one or the other of two
parties--such as their two parties 'Democrats' and 'Republicans'--but
can't make up his mind WHICH.  Such a man is said to be "sitting
on the fence."  Now that is exactly the position of the red counter
you have just placed on the division-line.  He likes the look of
No. 5, and he likes the look of No. 6, and he doesn't know WHICH to
jump down into.  So there he sits astride, silly fellow, dangling
his legs, one on each side of the fence!
Now I am going to give you a much harder one to make out.  What
does this mean?
                      -----------
                     |     |     |
                     |  1  |  0  |
                     |     |     |
                      -----------
This is clearly a DOUBLE Proposition.  It tells us not only that
"some x are y," but also the "no x are NOT y."  Hence the result
is "ALL x are y," i.e.  "all new Cakes are nice", which is the last
of the three Propositions at the head of this Section.
We see, then, that the Universal Proposition
"All new Cakes are nice"
consists of TWO Propositions taken together, namely,
             "Some new Cakes are nice,"
        and "No new Cakes are not-nice."
In the same way
                      -----------
                     |     |     |
                     |  0  |  1  |
                     |     |     |
                      -----------
would mean "all x are y' ", that is,
"All new Cakes are not-nice."
Now what would you make of such a Proposition as "The Cake you have
given me is nice"?  Is it Particular or Universal?
"Particular, of course," you readily reply.  "One single Cake is
hardly worth calling 'some,' even."
No, my dear impulsive Reader, it is 'Universal'.  Remember that,
few as they are (and I grant you they couldn't well be fewer),
they are (or rather 'it is') ALL that you have given me!  Thus, if
(leaving 'red' out of the question) I divide my Universe of Cakes
into two classes--the Cakes you have given me (to which I assign
the upper half of the cupboard), and those you HAVEN'T given me
(which are to go below)--I find the lower half fairly full, and the
upper one as nearly as possible empty.  And then, when I am told
to put an upright division into each half, keeping the NICE Cakes
to the left, and the NOT-NICE ones to the right, I begin by carefully
collecting ALL the Cakes you have given me (saying to myself, from
time to time, "Generous creature!  How shall I ever repay such
kindness?"), and piling them up in the left-hand compartment.  AND
IT DOESN'T TAKE LONG TO DO IT!
