'I think I'll go down the other way,' she said after a pause: 'and
perhaps I may visit the elephants later on. Besides, I do so want to get
into the Third Square!'
So with this excuse she ran down the hill and jumped over the first of
the six little brooks.
  *    *    *    *    *    *    *
    *    *    *    *    *    *
  *    *    *    *    *    *    *
'Tickets, please!' said the Guard, putting his head in at the window.
In a moment everybody was holding out a ticket: they were about the same
size as the people, and quite seemed to fill the carriage.
'Now then! Show your ticket, child!' the Guard went on, looking angrily
at Alice. And a great many voices all said together ('like the chorus of
a song,' thought Alice), 'Don't keep him waiting, child! Why, his time
is worth a thousand pounds a minute!'
'I'm afraid I haven't got one,' Alice said in a frightened tone: 'there
wasn't a ticket-office where I came from.' And again the chorus of
voices went on. 'There wasn't room for one where she came from. The land
there is worth a thousand pounds an inch!'
'Don't make excuses,' said the Guard: 'you should have bought one from
the engine-driver.' And once more the chorus of voices went on with 'The
man that drives the engine. Why, the smoke alone is worth a thousand
pounds a puff!'
Alice thought to herself, 'Then there's no use in speaking.' The
voices didn't join in this time, as she hadn't spoken, but to her
great surprise, they all THOUGHT in chorus (I hope you understand what
THINKING IN CHORUS means--for I must confess that _I_ don't), 'Better
say nothing at all. Language is worth a thousand pounds a word!'
'I shall dream about a thousand pounds tonight, I know I shall!' thought
Alice.
All this time the Guard was looking at her, first through a telescope,
then through a microscope, and then through an opera-glass. At last he
said, 'You're travelling the wrong way,' and shut up the window and went
away.
'So young a child,' said the gentleman sitting opposite to her (he was
dressed in white paper), 'ought to know which way she's going, even if
she doesn't know her own name!'
A Goat, that was sitting next to the gentleman in white, shut his
eyes and said in a loud voice, 'She ought to know her way to the
ticket-office, even if she doesn't know her alphabet!'
There was a Beetle sitting next to the Goat (it was a very queer
carriage-full of passengers altogether), and, as the rule seemed to be
that they should all speak in turn, HE went on with 'She'll have to go
back from here as luggage!'
Alice couldn't see who was sitting beyond the Beetle, but a hoarse voice
spoke next. 'Change engines--' it said, and was obliged to leave off.
'It sounds like a horse,' Alice thought to herself. And an extremely
small voice, close to her ear, said, 'You might make a joke on
that--something about "horse" and "hoarse," you know.'
