"Mebbe this is a case where a hunch after the draw is better'n the
hunch before," Kearns remarked; "wherefore duty says, 'Lift her, Jack,
lift her,' and so I lift her another five thousand."
Daylight leaned back in his chair and gazed up at the kerosene lamps
while he computed aloud.
"I was in nine thousand before the draw, and I saw and raised eleven
thousand--that makes thirty.  I'm only good for ten more."
He leaned forward and looked at Kearns.  "So I call that ten thousand."
"You can raise if you want," Kearns answered.  "Your dogs are good for
five thousand in this game."
"Nary dawg.  You-all can win my dust and dirt, but nary one of my
dawgs.  I just call."
MacDonald considered for a long time.  No one moved or whispered.
Not a muscle was relaxed on the part of the onlookers.  Not the weight
of a body shifted from one leg to the other.  It was a sacred silence.
Only could be heard the roaring draft of the huge stove, and from
without, muffled by the log-walls, the howling of dogs.  It was not
every night that high stakes were played on the Yukon, and for that
matter, this was the highest in the history of the country.  The
saloon-keeper finally spoke.
"If anybody else wins, they'll have to take a mortgage on the Tivoli."
The two other players nodded.
"So I call, too."  MacDonald added his slip for five thousand.
Not one of them claimed the pot, and not one of them called the size of
his hand.  Simultaneously and in silence they faced their cards on the
table, while a general tiptoeing and craning of necks took place among
the onlookers.  Daylight showed four queens and an ace; MacDonald four
jacks and an ace; and Kearns four kings and a trey.  Kearns reached
forward with an encircling movement of his arm and drew the pot in to
him, his arm shaking as he did so.
Daylight picked the ace from his hand and tossed it over alongside
MacDonald's ace, saying:--
"That's what cheered me along, Mac.  I knowed it was only kings that
could beat me, and he had them.
"What did you-all have?" he asked, all interest, turning to Campbell.
"Straight flush of four, open at both ends--a good drawing hand."
"You bet! You could a' made a straight, a straight flush, or a flush
out of it."
"That's what I thought," Campbell said sadly.  "It cost me six thousand
before I quit."
"I wisht you-all'd drawn," Daylight laughed.  "Then I wouldn't a'
caught that fourth queen.  Now I've got to take Billy Rawlins' mail
contract and mush for Dyea.  What's the size of the killing, Jack?"
Kearns attempted to count the pot, but was too excited.  Daylight drew
it across to him, with firm fingers separating and stacking the markers
and I.O.U.'s and with clear brain adding the sum.
"One hundred and twenty-seven thousand," he announced.  "You-all can
sell out now, Jack, and head for home."
