But at three in the morning the big combination of hands arrived.
It was the moment of moments that men wait weeks for in a poker game.
The news of it tingled over the Tivoli.  The onlookers became quiet.
The men farther away ceased talking and moved over to the table.  The
players deserted the other games, and the dancing-floor was forsaken,
so that all stood at last, fivescore and more, in a compact and silent
group, around the poker-table. The high betting had begun before the
draw, and still the high betting went on, with the draw not in sight.
Kearns had dealt, and French Louis had opened the pot with one
marker--in his case one hundred dollars.  Campbell had merely "seen"
it, but Elam Harnish, corning next, had tossed in five hundred dollars,
with the remark to MacDonald that he was letting him in easy.
MacDonald, glancing again at his hand, put in a thousand in markers.
Kearns, debating a long time over his hand, finally "saw."  It then
cost French Louis nine hundred to remain in the game, which he
contributed after a similar debate.  It cost Campbell likewise nine
hundred to remain and draw cards, but to the surprise of all he saw the
nine hundred and raised another thousand.
"You-all are on the grade at last," Harnish remarked, as he saw the
fifteen hundred and raised a thousand in turn.  "Helen Breakfast's sure
on top this divide, and you-all had best look out for bustin' harness."
"Me for that same lady," accompanied MacDonald's markers for two
thousand and for an additional thousand-dollar raise.
It was at this stage that the players sat up and knew beyond
peradventure that big hands were out.  Though their features showed
nothing, each man was beginning unconsciously to tense. Each man strove
to appear his natural self, and each natural self was different.  Hal
Campbell affected his customary cautiousness.
French Louis betrayed interest.  MacDonald retained his whole-souled
benevolence, though it seemed to take on a slightly exaggerated tone.
Kearns was coolly dispassionate and noncommittal, while Elam Harnish
appeared as quizzical and jocular as ever.  Eleven thousand dollars
were already in the pot, and the markers were heaped in a confused pile
in the centre of the table.
"I ain't go no more markers," Kearns remarked plaintively.  "We'd best
begin I.O.U.'s."
"Glad you're going to stay," was MacDonald's cordial response.
"I ain't stayed yet.  I've got a thousand in already.  How's it stand
now?"
"It'll cost you three thousand for a look in, but nobody will stop you
from raising."
"Raise--hell.  You must think I got a pat like yourself." Kearns looked
at his hand.  "But I'll tell you what I'll do, Mac.
"I've got a hunch, and I'll just see that three thousand."
He wrote the sum on a slip of paper, signed his name, and consigned it
to the centre of the table.
French Louis became the focus of all eyes.  He fingered his cards
nervously for a space.  Then, with a "By Gar!  Ah got not one leetle
beet hunch," he regretfully tossed his hand into the discards.
