It was past nine o'clock, and they were ready for bed.  The squabbling
and bickering among the dogs had long since died down, and the weary
animals were curled in the snow, each with his feet and nose bunched
together and covered by his wolf's brush of a tail.  Kama spread his
sleeping-furs and lighted his pipe. Daylight rolled a brown-paper
cigarette, and the second conversation of the evening took place.
"I think we come near sixty miles," said Daylight.
"Um, I t'ink so," said Kama.
They rolled into their robes, all-standing, each with a woolen Mackinaw
jacket on in place of the parkas[5] they had worn all day.  Swiftly,
almost on the instant they closed their eyes, they were asleep.  The
stars leaped and danced in the frosty air, and overhead the colored
bars of the aurora borealis were shooting like great searchlights.
In the darkness Daylight awoke and roused Kama.  Though the aurora
still flamed, another day had begun.  Warmed-over flapjacks,
warmed-over beans, fried bacon, and coffee composed the breakfast.  The
dogs got nothing, though they watched with wistful mien from a
distance, sitting up in the snow, their tails curled around their paws.
Occasionally they lifted one fore paw or the other, with a restless
movement, as if the frost tingled in their feet.  It was bitter cold,
at least sixty-five below zero, and when Kama harnessed the dogs with
naked hands he was compelled several times to go over to the fire and
warm the numbing finger-tips.  Together the two men loaded and lashed
the sled.  They warmed their hands for the last time, pulled on their
mittens, and mushed the dogs over the bank and down to the river-trail.
According to Daylight's estimate, it was around seven o'clock; but the
stars danced just as brilliantly, and faint, luminous streaks of
greenish aurora still pulsed overhead.
Two hours later it became suddenly dark--so dark that they kept to the
trail largely by instinct; and Daylight knew that his time-estimate had
been right.  It was the darkness before dawn, never anywhere more
conspicuous than on the Alaskan winter-trail.
Slowly the gray light came stealing through the gloom, imperceptibly at
first, so that it was almost with surprise that they noticed the vague
loom of the trail underfoot.  Next, they were able to see the
wheel-dog, and then the whole string of running dogs and snow-stretches
on either side.  Then the near bank loomed for a moment and was gone,
loomed a second time and remained.  In a few minutes the far bank, a
mile away, unobtrusively came into view, and ahead and behind, the
whole frozen river could be seen, with off to the left a wide-extending
range of sharp-cut, snow-covered mountains.  And that was all. No sun
arose.  The gray light remained gray.
Once, during the day, a lynx leaped lightly across the trail, under the
very nose of the lead-dog, and vanished in the white woods.  The dogs'
wild impulses roused.  They raised the hunting-cry of the pack, surged
against their collars, and swerved aside in pursuit.  Daylight, yelling
"Whoa!" struggled with the gee-pole and managed to overturn the sled
into the soft snow.  The dogs gave up, the sled was righted, and five
minutes later they were flying along the hard-packed trail again.  The
lynx was the only sign of life they had seen in two days, and it,
leaping velvet-footed and vanishing, had been more like an apparition.
