Mate and captain carried automatics in their belts, and with these they
turned loose, shooting away clip after clip to the breathless admiration
of the blacks for such marvellous rapidity of fire.  The boat's crew were
not even fair shots, but Van Horn, like every captain in the Solomons,
knew that the bush natives and salt-water men were so much worse shots,
and knew that the shooting of his boat's crew could be depended upon--if
the boat's crew itself did not turn against the ship in a pinch.
At first, Borckman's automatic jammed, and he received a caution from Van
Horn for his carelessness in not keeping it clean and thin-oiled.  Also,
Borckman was twittingly asked how many drinks he had taken, and if that
was what accounted for his shooting being under his average.  Borckman
explained that he had a touch of fever, and Van Horn deferred stating his
doubts until a few minutes later, squatting in the shade of the spanker
with Jerry in his arms, he told Jerry all about it.
"The trouble with him is the schnapps, Jerry," he explained.  "Gott-fer-
dang, it makes me keep all my watches and half of his.  And he says it's
the fever.  Never believe it, Jerry.  It's the schnapps--just the plain s-
c-h-n-a-p-p-s schnapps.  An' he's a good sailor-man, Jerry, when he's
sober.  But when he's schnappy he's sheer lunatic.  Then his noddle goes
pinwheeling and he's a blighted fool, and he'd snore in a gale and suffer
for sleep in a dead calm.--Jerry, you're just beginning to pad those four
little soft feet of yours into the world, so take the advice of one who
knows and leave the schnapps alone.  Believe me, Jerry, boy--listen to
your father--schnapps will never buy you anything."
Whereupon, leaving Jerry on deck to stalk the wild-dog, Captain Van Horn
went below into the tiny stateroom and took a long drink from the very
bottle from which Borckman was stealing.
The stalking of the wild-dog became a game, at least to Jerry, who was so
made that his heart bore no malice, and who hugely enjoyed it.  Also, it
gave him a delightful consciousness of his own mastery, for the wild-dog
always fled from him.  At least so far as dogs were concerned, Jerry was
cock of the deck of the _Arangi_.  It did not enter his head to query how
his conduct affected the wild-dog, though, in truth, he led that
individual a wretched existence.  Never, except when Jerry was below, did
the wild one dare venture more than several feet from his retreat, and he
went about in fear and trembling of the fat roly-poly puppy who was
unafraid of his snarl.
In the late afternoon, Jerry trotted aft, after having administered
another lesson to the wild-dog, and found Skipper seated on the deck,
back against the low rail, knees drawn up, and gazing absently off to
leeward.  Jerry sniffed his bare calf--not that he needed to identify it,
but just because he liked to, and in a sort of friendly greeting.  But
Van Horn took no notice, continuing to stare out across the sea.  Nor was
he aware of the puppy's presence.
