"But if the medicine is not good medicine?" Makamuk queried anxiously.
Subienkow turned upon him wrathfully.
"My medicine is always good.  However, if it is not good, then do by me
as you have done to the others.  Cut me up a bit at a time, even as you
have cut him up."  He pointed to the Cossack.  "The medicine is now cool.
Thus, I rub it on my neck, saying this further medicine."
With great gravity he slowly intoned a line of the "Marseillaise," at the
same time rubbing the villainous brew thoroughly into his neck.
An outcry interrupted his play-acting.  The giant Cossack, with a last
resurgence of his tremendous vitality, had arisen to his knees.  Laughter
and cries of surprise and applause arose from the Nulatos, as Big Ivan
began flinging himself about in the snow with mighty spasms.
Subienkow was made sick by the sight, but he mastered his qualms and made
believe to be angry.
"This will not do," he said.  "Finish him, and then we will make the
test.  Here, you, Yakaga, see that his noise ceases."
While this was being done, Subienkow turned to Makamuk.
"And remember, you are to strike hard.  This is not baby-work.  Here,
take the axe and strike the log, so that I can see you strike like a
man."
Makamuk obeyed, striking twice, precisely and with vigour, cutting out a
large chip.
"It is well."  Subienkow looked about him at the circle of savage faces
that somehow seemed to symbolize the wall of savagery that had hemmed him
about ever since the Czar's police had first arrested him in Warsaw.
"Take your axe, Makamuk, and stand so.  I shall lie down.  When I raise
my hand, strike, and strike with all your might.  And be careful that no
one stands behind you.  The medicine is good, and the axe may bounce from
off my neck and right out of your hands."
He looked at the two sleds, with the dogs in harness, loaded with furs
and fish.  His rifle lay on top of the beaver skins.  The six hunters who
were to act as his guard stood by the sleds.
"Where is the girl?" the Pole demanded.  "Bring her up to the sleds
before the test goes on."
When this had been carried out, Subienkow lay down in the snow, resting
his head on the log like a tired child about to sleep.  He had lived so
many dreary years that he was indeed tired.
"I laugh at you and your strength, O Makamuk," he said.  "Strike, and
strike hard."
He lifted his hand.  Makamuk swung the axe, a broadaxe for the squaring
of logs.  The bright steel flashed through the frosty air, poised for a
perceptible instant above Makamuk's head, then descended upon Subienkow's
bare neck.  Clear through flesh and bone it cut its way, biting deeply
into the log beneath.  The amazed savages saw the head bounce a yard away
from the blood-spouting trunk.
There was a great bewilderment and silence, while slowly it began to dawn
in their minds that there had been no medicine.  The fur-thief had
outwitted them.  Alone, of all their prisoners, he had escaped the
torture.  That had been the stake for which he played.  A great roar of
laughter went up.  Makamuk bowed his head in shame.  The fur-thief had
fooled him.  He had lost face before all his people.  Still they
continued to roar out their laughter.  Makamuk turned, and with bowed
head stalked away.  He knew that thenceforth he would be no longer known
as Makamuk.  He would be Lost Face; the record of his shame would be with
him until he died; and whenever the tribes gathered in the spring for the
salmon, or in the summer for the trading, the story would pass back and
forth across the camp-fires of how the fur-thief died peaceably, at a
single stroke, by the hand of Lost Face.
