He was angry, and cursed his luck aloud.  He had hoped to get into camp
with the boys at six o'clock, and this would delay him an hour, for he
would have to build a fire and dry out his foot-gear.  This was
imperative at that low temperature--he knew that much; and he turned
aside to the bank, which he climbed.  On top, tangled in the underbrush
about the trunks of several small spruce trees, was a high-water deposit
of dry firewood--sticks and twigs principally, but also larger portions
of seasoned branches and fine, dry, last-year's grasses.  He threw down
several large pieces on top of the snow.  This served for a foundation
and prevented the young flame from drowning itself in the snow it
otherwise would melt.  The flame he got by touching a match to a small
shred of birch-bark that he took from his pocket.  This burned even more
readily than paper.  Placing it on the foundation, he fed the young flame
with wisps of dry grass and with the tiniest dry twigs.
He worked slowly and carefully, keenly aware of his danger.  Gradually,
as the flame grew stronger, he increased the size of the twigs with which
he fed it.  He squatted in the snow, pulling the twigs out from their
entanglement in the brush and feeding directly to the flame.  He knew
there must be no failure.  When it is seventy-five below zero, a man must
not fail in his first attempt to build a fire--that is, if his feet are
wet.  If his feet are dry, and he fails, he can run along the trail for
half a mile and restore his circulation.  But the circulation of wet and
freezing feet cannot be restored by running when it is seventy-five
below.  No matter how fast he runs, the wet feet will freeze the harder.
All this the man knew.  The old-timer on Sulphur Creek had told him about
it the previous fall, and now he was appreciating the advice.  Already
all sensation had gone out of his feet.  To build the fire he had been
forced to remove his mittens, and the fingers had quickly gone numb.  His
pace of four miles an hour had kept his heart pumping blood to the
surface of his body and to all the extremities.  But the instant he
stopped, the action of the pump eased down.  The cold of space smote the
unprotected tip of the planet, and he, being on that unprotected tip,
received the full force of the blow.  The blood of his body recoiled
before it.  The blood was alive, like the dog, and like the dog it wanted
to hide away and cover itself up from the fearful cold.  So long as he
walked four miles an hour, he pumped that blood, willy-nilly, to the
surface; but now it ebbed away and sank down into the recesses of his
body.  The extremities were the first to feel its absence.  His wet feet
froze the faster, and his exposed fingers numbed the faster, though they
had not yet begun to freeze.  Nose and cheeks were already freezing,
while the skin of all his body chilled as it lost its blood.
