The man was shocked.  It was as though he had just heard his own sentence
of death.  For a moment he sat and stared at the spot where the fire had
been.  Then he grew very calm.  Perhaps the old-timer on Sulphur Creek
was right.  If he had only had a trail-mate he would have been in no
danger now.  The trail-mate could have built the fire.  Well, it was up
to him to build the fire over again, and this second time there must be
no failure.  Even if he succeeded, he would most likely lose some toes.
His feet must be badly frozen by now, and there would be some time before
the second fire was ready.
Such were his thoughts, but he did not sit and think them.  He was busy
all the time they were passing through his mind, he made a new foundation
for a fire, this time in the open; where no treacherous tree could blot
it out.  Next, he gathered dry grasses and tiny twigs from the high-water
flotsam.  He could not bring his fingers together to pull them out, but
he was able to gather them by the handful.  In this way he got many
rotten twigs and bits of green moss that were undesirable, but it was the
best he could do.  He worked methodically, even collecting an armful of
the larger branches to be used later when the fire gathered strength.
And all the while the dog sat and watched him, a certain yearning
wistfulness in its eyes, for it looked upon him as the fire-provider, and
the fire was slow in coming.
When all was ready, the man reached in his pocket for a second piece of
birch-bark.  He knew the bark was there, and, though he could not feel it
with his fingers, he could hear its crisp rustling as he fumbled for it.
Try as he would, he could not clutch hold of it.  And all the time, in
his consciousness, was the knowledge that each instant his feet were
freezing.  This thought tended to put him in a panic, but he fought
against it and kept calm.  He pulled on his mittens with his teeth, and
threshed his arms back and forth, beating his hands with all his might
against his sides.  He did this sitting down, and he stood up to do it;
and all the while the dog sat in the snow, its wolf-brush of a tail
curled around warmly over its forefeet, its sharp wolf-ears pricked
forward intently as it watched the man.  And the man as he beat and
threshed with his arms and hands, felt a great surge of envy as he
regarded the creature that was warm and secure in its natural covering.
After a time he was aware of the first far-away signals of sensation in
his beaten fingers.  The faint tingling grew stronger till it evolved
into a stinging ache that was excruciating, but which the man hailed with
satisfaction.  He stripped the mitten from his right hand and fetched
forth the birch-bark.  The exposed fingers were quickly going numb again.
Next he brought out his bunch of sulphur matches.  But the tremendous
cold had already driven the life out of his fingers.  In his effort to
separate one match from the others, the whole bunch fell in the snow.  He
tried to pick it out of the snow, but failed.  The dead fingers could
neither touch nor clutch.  He was very careful.  He drove the thought of
his freezing feet; and nose, and cheeks, out of his mind, devoting his
whole soul to the matches.  He watched, using the sense of vision in
place of that of touch, and when he saw his fingers on each side the
bunch, he closed them--that is, he willed to close them, for the wires
were drawn, and the fingers did not obey.  He pulled the mitten on the
right hand, and beat it fiercely against his knee.  Then, with both
mittened hands, he scooped the bunch of matches, along with much snow,
into his lap.  Yet he was no better off.
