In the course of the next two hours he came upon several similar traps.
Usually the snow above the hidden pools had a sunken, candied appearance
that advertised the danger.  Once again, however, he had a close call;
and once, suspecting danger, he compelled the dog to go on in front.  The
dog did not want to go.  It hung back until the man shoved it forward,
and then it went quickly across the white, unbroken surface.  Suddenly it
broke through, floundered to one side, and got away to firmer footing.
It had wet its forefeet and legs, and almost immediately the water that
clung to it turned to ice.  It made quick efforts to lick the ice off its
legs, then dropped down in the snow and began to bite out the ice that
had formed between the toes.  This was a matter of instinct.  To permit
the ice to remain would mean sore feet.  It did not know this.  It merely
obeyed the mysterious prompting that arose from the deep crypts of its
being.  But the man knew, having achieved a judgment on the subject, and
he removed the mitten from his right hand and helped tear out the
ice-particles.  He did not expose his fingers more than a minute, and was
astonished at the swift numbness that smote them.  It certainly was cold.
He pulled on the mitten hastily, and beat the hand savagely across his
chest.
At twelve o'clock the day was at its brightest.  Yet the sun was too far
south on its winter journey to clear the horizon.  The bulge of the earth
intervened between it and Henderson Creek, where the man walked under a
clear sky at noon and cast no shadow.  At half-past twelve, to the
minute, he arrived at the forks of the creek.  He was pleased at the
speed he had made.  If he kept it up, he would certainly be with the boys
by six.  He unbuttoned his jacket and shirt and drew forth his lunch.
The action consumed no more than a quarter of a minute, yet in that brief
moment the numbness laid hold of the exposed fingers.  He did not put the
mitten on, but, instead, struck the fingers a dozen sharp smashes against
his leg.  Then he sat down on a snow-covered log to eat.  The sting that
followed upon the striking of his fingers against his leg ceased so
quickly that he was startled, he had had no chance to take a bite of
biscuit.  He struck the fingers repeatedly and returned them to the
mitten, baring the other hand for the purpose of eating.  He tried to
take a mouthful, but the ice-muzzle prevented.  He had forgotten to build
a fire and thaw out.  He chuckled at his foolishness, and as he chuckled
he noted the numbness creeping into the exposed fingers.  Also, he noted
that the stinging which had first come to his toes when he sat down was
already passing away.  He wondered whether the toes were warm or numbed.
He moved them inside the moccasins and decided that they were numbed.
