"Oh, it's a great life," the doctor proclaimed enthusiastically, pausing
from sharpening his knife on the stovepipe.  "What I like about it is the
struggle, the endeavor with one's own hands, the primitiveness of it, the
realness."
"The temperature is real enough," Messner laughed.
"Do you know how cold it actually is?" the doctor demanded.
The other shook his head.
"Well, I'll tell you.  Seventy-four below zero by spirit thermometer on
the sled."
"That's one hundred and six below freezing point--too cold for
travelling, eh?"
"Practically suicide," was the doctor's verdict.  "One exerts himself.  He
breathes heavily, taking into his lungs the frost itself.  It chills his
lungs, freezes the edges of the tissues.  He gets a dry, hacking cough as
the dead tissue sloughs away, and dies the following summer of pneumonia,
wondering what it's all about.  I'll stay in this cabin for a week,
unless the thermometer rises at least to fifty below."
"I say, Tess," he said, the next moment, "don't you think that coffee's
boiled long enough!"
At the sound of the woman's name, John Messner became suddenly alert.  He
looked at her quickly, while across his face shot a haunting expression,
the ghost of some buried misery achieving swift resurrection.  But the
next moment, and by an effort of will, the ghost was laid again.  His
face was as placid as before, though he was still alert, dissatisfied
with what the feeble light had shown him of the woman's face.
Automatically, her first act had been to set the coffee-pot back.  It was
not until she had done this that she glanced at Messner.  But already he
had composed himself.  She saw only a man sitting on the edge of the bunk
and incuriously studying the toes of his moccasins.  But, as she turned
casually to go about her cooking, he shot another swift look at her, and
she, glancing as swiftly back, caught his look.  He shifted on past her
to the doctor, though the slightest smile curled his lip in appreciation
of the way she had trapped him.
She drew a candle from the grub-box and lighted it.  One look at her
illuminated face was enough for Messner.  In the small cabin the widest
limit was only a matter of several steps, and the next moment she was
alongside of him.  She deliberately held the candle close to his face and
stared at him out of eyes wide with fear and recognition.  He smiled
quietly back at her.
"What are you looking for, Tess?" the doctor called.
"Hairpins," she replied, passing on and rummaging in a clothes-bag on the
bunk.
They served their meal on their grub-box, sitting on Messner's grub-box
and facing him.  He had stretched out on his bunk to rest, lying on his
side, his head on his arm.  In the close quarters it was as though the
three were together at table.
"What part of the States do you come from?" Messner asked.
"San Francisco," answered the doctor.  "I've been in here two years,
though."
