"Glad to meet you, Graham Womble," he said in conventional tones, as
though acknowledging an introduction.
Messner did not offer his hand.  Womble stirred uneasily, feeling for the
other the hatred one is prone to feel for one he has wronged.
"And so you're the chap," Messner said in marvelling accents.  "Well,
well.  You see, I really am glad to meet you.  I have been--er--curious
to know what Theresa found in you--where, I may say, the attraction lay.
Well, well."
And he looked the other up and down as a man would look a horse up and
down.
"I know how you must feel about me," Womble began.
"Don't mention it," Messner broke in with exaggerated cordiality of voice
and manner.  "Never mind that.  What I want to know is how do you find
her?  Up to expectations?  Has she worn well?  Life been all a happy
dream ever since?"
"Don't be silly," Theresa interjected.
"I can't help being natural," Messner complained.
"You can be expedient at the same time, and practical," Womble said
sharply.  "What we want to know is what are you going to do?"
Messner made a well-feigned gesture of helplessness.  "I really don't
know.  It is one of those impossible situations against which there can
be no provision."
"All three of us cannot remain the night in this cabin."
Messner nodded affirmation.
"Then somebody must get out."
"That also is incontrovertible," Messner agreed.  "When three bodies
cannot occupy the same space at the same time, one must get out."
"And you're that one," Womble announced grimly.  "It's a ten-mile pull to
the next camp, but you can make it all right."
"And that's the first flaw in your reasoning," the other objected.  "Why,
necessarily, should I be the one to get out?  I found this cabin first."
"But Tess can't get out," Womble explained.  "Her lungs are already
slightly chilled."
"I agree with you.  She can't venture ten miles of frost.  By all means
she must remain."
"Then it is as I said," Womble announced with finality.
Messner cleared his throat.  "Your lungs are all right, aren't they?"
"Yes, but what of it?"
Again the other cleared his throat and spoke with painstaking and
judicial slowness.  "Why, I may say, nothing of it, except, ah, according
to your own reasoning, there is nothing to prevent your getting out,
hitting the frost, so to speak, for a matter of ten miles.  You can make
it all right."
Womble looked with quick suspicion at Theresa and caught in her eyes a
glint of pleased surprise.
"Well?" he demanded of her.
She hesitated, and a surge of anger darkened his face.  He turned upon
Messner.
"Enough of this.  You can't stop here."
"Yes, I can."
"I won't let you." Womble squared his shoulders.  "I'm running things."
"I'll stay anyway," the other persisted.
"I'll put you out."
"I'll come back."
Womble stopped a moment to steady his voice and control himself.  Then he
spoke slowly, in a low, tense voice.
