"Soul" is used advisedly.  Whatever the human soul may be--informing
spirit, identity, personality, consciousness--that intangible thing
Michael certainly possessed.  His soul, differing only in degree, partook
of the same attributes as the human soul.  He knew love, sorrow, joy,
wrath, pride, self-consciousness, humour.  Three cardinal attributes of
the human soul are memory, will, and understanding; and memory, will, and
understanding were Michael's.
Just like a human, with his five senses he contacted with the world
exterior to him.  Just like a human, the results to him of these contacts
were sensations.  Just like a human, these sensations on occasion
culminated in emotions.  Still further, like a human, he could and did
perceive, and such perceptions did flower in his brain as concepts,
certainly not so wide and deep and recondite as those of humans, but
concepts nevertheless.
Perhaps, to let the human down a trifle from such disgraceful identity of
the highest life-attributes, it would be well to admit that Michael's
sensations were not quite so poignant, say in the matter of a
needle-thrust through his foot as compared with a needle-thrust through
the palm of a hand.  Also, it is admitted, when consciousness suffused
his brain with a thought, that the thought was dimmer, vaguer than a
similar thought in a human brain.  Furthermore, it is admitted that
never, never, in a million lifetimes, could Michael have demonstrated a
proposition in Euclid or solved a quadratic equation.  Yet he was capable
of knowing beyond all peradventure of a doubt that three bones are more
than two bones, and that ten dogs compose a more redoubtable host than do
two dogs.
One admission, however, will not be made, namely, that Michael could not
love as devotedly, as wholeheartedly, unselfishly, madly,
self-sacrificingly as a human.  He did so love--not because he was
Michael, but because he was a dog.
Michael had loved Captain Kellar more than he loved his own life.  No
more than Jerry for Skipper, would he have hesitated to risk his life for
Captain Kellar.  And he was destined, as time went by and the conviction
that Captain Kellar had passed into the inevitable nothingness along with
Meringe and the Solomons, to love just as absolutely this six-quart
steward with the understanding ways and the fascinating lip-caress.
Kwaque, no; for Kwaque was black.  Kwaque he merely accepted, as an
appurtenance, as a part of the human landscape, as a chattel of Dag
Daughtry.
But he did not know this new god as Dag Daughtry.  Kwaque called him
"marster"; but Michael heard other white men so addressed by the blacks.
Many blacks had he heard call Captain Kellar "marster."  It was Captain
Duncan who called the steward "Steward."  Michael came to hear him, and
his officers, and all the passengers, so call him; and thus, to Michael,
his god's name was Steward, and for ever after he was to know him and
think of him as Steward.
There was the question of his own name.  The next evening after he came
on board, Dag Daughtry talked it over with him.  Michael sat on his
haunches, the length of his lower jaw resting on Daughtry's knee, the
while his eyes dilated, contracted and glowed, his ears ever pricking and
repricking to listen, his stump tail thumping ecstatically on the floor.
