"It's this way, son," the steward told him.  "Your father and mother were
Irish.  Now don't be denying it, you rascal--"
This, as Michael, encouraged by the unmistakable geniality and kindness
in the voice, wriggled his whole body and thumped double knocks of
delight with his tail.  Not that he understood a word of it, but that he
did understand the something behind the speech that informed the string
of sounds with all the mysterious likeableness that white gods possessed.
"Never be ashamed of your ancestry.  An' remember, God loves the
Irish--Kwaque!  Go fetch 'm two bottle beer fella stop 'm along
icey-chestis!--Why, the very mug of you, my lad, sticks out Irish all
over it."  (Michael's tail beat a tattoo.)  "Now don't be blarneyin' me.
'Tis well I'm wise to your insidyous, snugglin', heart-stealin' ways.
I'll have ye know my heart's impervious.  'Tis soaked too long this many
a day in beer.  I stole you to sell you, not to be lovin' you.  I
could've loved you once; but that was before me and beer was introduced.
I'd sell you for twenty quid right now, coin down, if the chance offered.
An' I ain't goin' to love you, so you can put that in your pipe 'n' smoke
it."
"But as I was about to say when so rudely interrupted by your 'fectionate
ways--"
Here he broke off to tilt to his mouth the opened bottle Kwaque handed
him.  He sighed, wiped his lips with the back of his hand, and proceeded.
"'Tis a strange thing, son, this silly matter of beer.  Kwaque, the
Methusalem-faced ape grinnin' there, belongs to me.  But by my faith do I
belong to beer, bottles 'n' bottles of it 'n' mountains of bottles of it
enough to sink the ship.  Dog, truly I envy you, settin' there
comfortable-like inside your body that's untainted of alcohol.  I may own
you, and the man that gives me twenty quid will own you, but never will a
mountain of bottles own you.  You're a freer man than I am, Mister Dog,
though I don't know your name.  Which reminds me--"
He drained the bottle, tossed it to Kwaque, and made signs for him to
open the remaining one.
"The namin' of you, son, is not lightly to be considered.  Irish, of
course, but what shall it be?  Paddy?  Well may you shake your head.
There's no smack of distinction to it.  Who'd mistake you for a
hod-carrier?  Ballymena might do, but it sounds much like a lady, my boy.
Ay, boy you are.  'Tis an idea.  Boy!  Let's see.  Banshee Boy?  Rotten.
Lad of Erin!"
He nodded approbation and reached for the second bottle.  He drank and
meditated, and drank again.
"I've got you," he announced solemnly.  "Killeny is a lovely name, and
it's Killeny Boy for you.  How's that strike your honourableness?--high-
soundin', dignified as a earl or . . . or a retired brewer.  Many's the
one of that gentry I've helped to retire in my day."
