Up to this time the Captain had been on the ferocious offensive, and he
was in the act of following up the kick when Michael regained his feet
and soared up in the air, not for leg or thigh, but for the throat.  Too
high it was for him to reach it, but his teeth closed on the flowing
black scarf and tore it to tatters as his weight drew him back to deck.
It was not this so much that turned Captain Duncan to the pure defensive
and started him retreating backward, as it was the silence of Michael.
Ominous as death it was.  There were no snarls nor throat-threats.  With
eyes straight-looking and unblinking, he sprang and sprang again.  Neither
did he growl when he attacked nor yelp when he was kicked.  Fear of the
blow was not in him.  As Tom Haggin had so often bragged of Biddy and
Terrence, they bred true in Jerry and Michael in the matter of not
wincing at a blow.  Always--they were so made--they sprang to meet the
blow and to encounter the creature who delivered the blow.  With a
silence that was invested with the seriousness of death, they were wont
to attack and to continue to attack.
And so Michael.  As the Captain retreated kicking, he attacked, leaping
and slashing.  What saved Captain Duncan was a sailor with a deck mop on
the end of a stick.  Intervening, he managed to thrust it into Michael's
mouth and shove him away.  This first time his teeth closed automatically
upon it.  But, spitting it out, he declined thereafter to bite it,
knowing it for what it was, an inanimate thing upon which his teeth could
inflict no hurt.
Nor, beyond trying to avoid him, was he interested in the sailor.  It was
Captain Duncan, leaning his back against the rail, breathing heavily, and
wiping the streaming sweat from his face, who was Michael's meat.  Long
as it has taken to tell the battle, beginning with the slaying of the
Persian cat to the thrusting of the mop into Michael's jaws, so swift had
been the rush of events that the passengers, springing from their deck-
chairs and hurrying to the scene, were just arriving when Michael eluded
the mop of the sailor by a successful dodge and plunged in on Captain
Duncan, this time sinking his teeth so savagely into a rotund calf as to
cause its owner to splutter an incoherent curse and howl of wrathful
surprise.
A fortunate kick hurled Michael away and enabled the sailor to intervene
once again with the mop.  And upon the scene came Dag Daughtry, to behold
his captain, frayed and bleeding and breathing apoplectically, Michael
raging in ghastly silence at the end of a mop, and a large Persian mother-
cat writhing with a broken back.
"Killeny Boy!" the steward cried imperatively.
Through no matter what indignation and rage that possessed him, his
lord's voice penetrated his consciousness, so that, cooling almost
instantly, Michael's ears flattened, his bristling hair lay down, and his
lips covered his fangs as he turned his head to look acknowledgment.
