"And I tumbled and borrowed a dollar.
"'Don't forget the local color!' he shouted after me through the door.
"And, Anak, it was the local color that did for me.
"The anaemic Cerberus grinned when I took the elevator. 'Got the bounce,
eh?'
"'Nay, pale youth, so lily-white,' I chortled, waving the copy paper;
'not the bounce, but a detail. I'll be City Editor in three months, and
then I'll make you jump.'
"And as the elevator stopped at the next floor down to take on a pair
of maids, he strolled over to the shaft, and without frills or verbiage
consigned me and my detail to perdition. But I liked him. He had pluck
and was unafraid, and he knew, as well as I, that death clutched him
close."
"But how could you, Leith," I cried, the picture of the consumptive lad
strong before me, "how could you treat him so barbarously?"
Leith laughed dryly. "My dear fellow, how often must I explain to you
your confusions? Orthodox sentiment and stereotyped emotion master
you. And then your temperament! You are really incapable of rational
judgments. Cerberus? Pshaw! A flash expiring, a mote of fading sparkle,
a dim-pulsing and dying organism--pouf! a snap of the fingers, a puff of
breath, what would you? A pawn in the game of life. Not even a problem.
There is no problem in a stillborn babe, nor in a dead child. They never
arrived. Nor did Cerberus. Now for a really pretty problem--"
"But the local color?" I prodded him.
"That's right," he replied. "Keep me in the running. Well, I took my
handful of copy paper down to the railroad yards (for local color),
dangled my legs from a side-door Pullman, which is another name for a
box-car, and ran off the stuff. Of course I made it clever and brilliant
and all that, with my little unanswerable slings at the state and my
social paradoxes, and withal made it concrete enough to dissatisfy the
average citizen.
"From the tramp standpoint, the constabulary of the township was
particularly rotten, and I proceeded to open the eyes of the good
people. It is a proposition, mathematically demonstrable, that it costs
the community more to arrest, convict, and confine its tramps in jail,
than to send them as guests, for like periods of time, to the best
hotel. And this I developed, giving the facts and figures, the constable
fees and the mileage, and the court and jail expenses. Oh, it was
convincing, and it was true; and I did it in a lightly humorous fashion
which fetched the laugh and left the sting. The main objection to the
system, I contended, was the defraudment and robbery of the tramp. The
good money which the community paid out for him should enable him to
riot in luxury instead of rotting in dungeons. I even drew the figures
so fine as to permit him not only to live in the best hotel but to smoke
two twenty-five-cent cigars and indulge in a ten-cent shine each day,
and still not cost the taxpayers so much as they were accustomed to pay
for his conviction and jail entertainment. And, as subsequent events
proved, it made the taxpayers wince.
