    "I thought to lift one of the little toilers to ascertain his weight.
    Straightaway through his thirty-five pounds of skin and bones there
    ran a tremor of fear, and he struggled forward to tie a broken
    thread.  I attracted his attention by a touch, and offered him a
    silver dime.  He looked at me dumbly from a face that might have
    belonged to a man of sixty, so furrowed, tightly drawn, and full of
    pain it was.  He did not reach for the money--he did not know what it
    was.  There were dozens of such children in this particular mill.  A
    physician who was with me said that they would all be dead probably
    in two years, and their places filled by others--there were plenty
    more.  Pneumonia carries off most of them.  Their systems are ripe
    for disease, and when it comes there is no rebound--no response.
    Medicine simply does not act--nature is whipped, beaten, discouraged,
    and the child sinks into a stupor and dies."
So fares modern man and the child of modern man in the United States,
most prosperous and enlightened of all countries on earth.  It must be
remembered that the instances given are instances only, but they can be
multiplied myriads of times.  It must also be remembered that what is
true of the United States is true of all the civilized world.  Such
misery was not true of the caveman.  Then what has happened?  Has the
hostile environment of the caveman grown more hostile for his
descendants?  Has the caveman's natural efficiency of 1 for food-getting
and shelter-getting diminished in modern man to one-half or one-quarter?
On the contrary, the hostile environment of the caveman has been
destroyed.  For modern man it no longer exists.  All carnivorous enemies,
the daily menace of the younger world, have been killed off.  Many of the
species of prey have become extinct.  Here and there, in secluded
portions of the world, still linger a few of man's fiercer enemies.  But
they are far from being a menace to mankind.  Modern man, when he wants
recreation and change, goes to the secluded portions of the world for a
hunt.  Also, in idle moments, he wails regretfully at the passing of the
"big game," which he knows in the not distant future will disappear from
the earth.
Nor since the day of the caveman has man's efficiency for food-getting
and shelter-getting diminished.  It has increased a thousandfold.  Since
the day of the caveman, matter has been mastered.  The secrets of matter
have been discovered.  Its laws have been formulated.  Wonderful
artifices have been made, and marvellous inventions, all tending to
increase tremendously man's natural efficiency of in every food-getting,
shelter-getting exertion, in farming, mining, manufacturing,
transportation, and communication.
From the caveman to the hand-workers of three generations ago, the
increase in efficiency for food- and shelter-getting has been very great.
But in this day, by machinery, the efficiency of the hand-worker of three
generations ago has in turn been increased many times.  Formerly it
required 200 hours of human labour to place 100 tons of ore on a railroad
car.  To-day, aided by machinery, but two hours of human labour is
required to do the same task.  The United States Bureau of Labour is
responsible for the following table, showing the comparatively recent
increase in man's food- and shelter-getting efficiency:
