With the natural resources of the world, the machinery already invented,
a rational organization of production and distribution, and an equally
rational elimination of waste, the able-bodied workers would not have to
labour more than two or three hours per day to feed everybody, clothe
everybody, house everybody, educate everybody, and give a fair measure of
little luxuries to everybody.  There would be no more material want and
wretchedness, no more children toiling out their lives, no more men and
women and babes living like beasts and dying like beasts.  Not only would
matter be mastered, but the machine would be mastered.  In such a day
incentive would be finer and nobler than the incentive of to-day, which
is the incentive of the stomach.  No man, woman, or child, would be
impelled to action by an empty stomach.  On the contrary, they would be
impelled to action as a child in a spelling match is impelled to action,
as boys and girls at games, as scientists formulating law, as inventors
applying law, as artists and sculptors painting canvases and shaping
clay, as poets and statesmen serving humanity by singing and by
statecraft.  The spiritual, intellectual, and artistic uplift consequent
upon such a condition of society would be tremendous.  All the human
world would surge upward in a mighty wave.
This was the opportunity vouchsafed the capitalist class.  Less blindness
on its part, less greediness, and a rational management, were all that
was necessary.  A wonderful era was possible for the human race.  But the
capitalist class failed.  It made a shambles of civilization.  Nor can
the capitalist class plead not guilty.  It knew of the opportunity.  Its
wise men told of the opportunity, its scholars and its scientists told it
of the opportunity.  All that they said is there to-day in the books,
just so much damning evidence against it.  It would not listen.  It was
too greedy.  It rose up (as it rises up to-day), shamelessly, in our
legislative halls, and declared that profits were impossible without the
toil of children and babes.  It lulled its conscience to sleep with
prattle of sweet ideals and dear moralities, and allowed the suffering
and misery of mankind to continue and to increase, in short, the
capitalist class failed to take advantage of the opportunity.
But the opportunity is still here.  The capitalist class has been tried
and found wanting.  Remains the working-class to see what it can do with
the opportunity.  "But the working-class is incapable," says the
capitalist class.  "What do you know about it?" the working-class
replies.  "Because you have failed is no reason that we shall fail.
Furthermore, we are going to have a try at it, anyway.  Seven millions of
us say so.  And what have you to say to that?"
And what can the capitalist class say?  Grant the incapacity of the
working-class.  Grant that the indictment and the argument of the
revolutionists are all wrong.  The 7,000,000 revolutionists remain.
Their existence is a fact.  Their belief in their capacity, and in their
indictment and their argument, is a fact.  Their constant growth is a
fact.  Their intention to destroy present-day society is a fact, as is
also their intention to take possession of the world with all its wealth
and machinery and governments.  Moreover, it is a fact that the
working-class is vastly larger than the capitalist class.
