SITKA CHARLEY
Um. Sure.
_(Sitka Charley gains street door and goes out.)_
_(A knock is heard at door. Enter Dave Harney, costumed as a Scotch
minister. He passes Prince's inspection, removes street moccasins and
parka, and walks to the front. His shambling, loose-jointed gait
discovers him. There is hand-clapping and laughter, and there are cries
of "Harney! Harney!" "Dave Harney!" Crowd singsy "For the sugar-man
will catch you if you don't watch out." He accepts the discovery, goes
over to stove at right, pulls newspaper out of pocket, and begins to
read. The dancers crowd about him, demanding the news. He makes to be
offended by them and walks away, reading paper. They follow behind him,
still clamoring for the news. He promenades about stage and then makes
exit to left, followed by the whole crew, with the exception of one
domino and a Court Lady of the time of Louis XVI, who linger by stove
to left.)_
COURT LADY
Mrs. Eppingwell I haven't seen your make-up, Archie.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
Domino,
_(In disguised voice, declaiming.)_
Would that I might claim Archie for myself, there is such affectionate
possession in the way you say it. Who is this Archie, sweet lady?
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Come, come, Archie, a truce to fooling. Besides, you can't fool me
anyway. Did you get the dogs off?
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
_(In natural voice.)_
Promptly, and with the one-eyed man. Also a spare man to come back
post-haste and let us know their progress.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Then when should Flossie arrive?
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
We figured it out. Barring accidents, or the unusual, she'll be here
by eleven-thirty--at any rate, not later than midnight.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(Considering.)_
Not later than midnight.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
Of course, after all, one can't tell within an hour.
Mrs. Eppingwell And she is to be brought here?
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
She'll ride the sled right up to the door. A knock, and then, enter
Flossie.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(With gratified smile.)_
And then all our troubles will be over. And now for your make-up. I
insist.
_(Capt. Eppingwell slips off domino and stands forth a faithful copy
of Sitka Charley.)_
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Sitka Charley!
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
_(Imitating Sitka Charley's voice.)_
Um wantum dogs? I sell um dogs, much good dogs.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(Clapping her hands.)_
Excellent!
_(She catches sight of Sitka Charley, who is entering through street
door at rear.)_
Quick!
_(Helps Capt. Eppingwell on with domino.)_
Now let us return to the ballroom and find Floyd Vanderlip. I'm pretty
sure of him. He's in a domino, too.
_(They start for exit to left. Sitka Charley, mistaking Capt.
Eppingwell for Vanderlip, signals to him a desire to speak with him,
but is ignored. Exit Mrs. Eppingwell and Capt. Eppingwell. Sitka
Charley stands a moment, puzzled, watching them go, then follows after
them. Makes, exit, and a moment later enters with Vanderlip, who is
still in domino.)_
VANDERLIP
_(Testily.)_
What do you want now?
SITKA CHARLEY
Me no want. Freda want.
VANDERLIP
What's she want?
SITKA CHARLEY
