CAPT. EPPINGWELL
And proceeded to take a hand. I begin to understand.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
I did my best to break her influence. The time and thought I've wasted
upon that man! It's almost scandalous the way I've devoted myself to
him! Sitka Charley believes I am in love with him--told me so to my
face. And it's all wasted, card parties and everything. What was I
against the only woman in Klondike who possesses a piano and a maid?
And to-night he runs away down the river with her.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
With Freda Moloof?
MRS. EPPINGWELL
With Freda Moloof. There she is now, buying things for the journey
most probably.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
_(Turning to look at Freda, and turning back again.)_
I must say she couldn't have done better if he is worth all you say
he is. I remember him now, a strapping fellow, brave as a lion and all
that.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Yes, but he's caressed more shovel-handles than women's hands, and
that's the trouble with him. And I don't know what I shall do.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
You could scarcely serve an injunction on him.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
I don't know what I'll do. Floyd Vanderlip is not the sort of man to
appeal to. To try to impress him to do the right thing would be like
setting fire to a powder mill. I wish I knew how near Flossie is.
There hasn't been a courier or a mail carrier in for weeks and weeks.
The mail from Dyea is twenty days overdue.
_(Enter Mail Carrier, carrying leather mail-pouch. He is clad in a
long squirrel-skin parka reaching to his knees, the hood drawn over
his head and ears and leaving only jace exposed. Face and mouth are
iced-up, making speech impossible. He does not stop to brush snow jrom
moccasins, but proceeds rapidly to cross to stove.)_
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
There is the man who can tell you about Flossie. Shall I ask him?
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Oh! the mail carrier? At last! And in the nick of time. Yes, do.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
_(Stepping into the path of the Mail Carrier.)_
What's the news?
_(Mail Carrier makes dumb show that he cannot speak, waving his arms
and pointing to his iced mouth and then to the stove.)_
_(Capt. Eppingwell laughs and lets him pass.)_
_(To Mrs. Eppingwell.)_
He's so iced up he cannot speak. Wait till he thaws out, and then I'll
get hold of him. In the meantime--
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(Interrupting.)_
In the meantime you must meet the Lisznayi.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
The Lisznayi!
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Yes, she is a fascinating woman, our latest acquisition. An Old World
Hungarian with all the do and dare of the New World blood. She was a
friend of the Queen of Roumania. Posed as a model for the Queen.
Had cardinals and princes at her beck and call. Plenty of money, of
course, position, and all that. Came into the Klondike out of sheer
love of adventure, and possibly because she was bored. You'll enjoy
her, I know. There she is over there. Do you care to?
