Mrs. Eppingwell _(Smiling.)_
You don't know women, Archie,
_(Adding as an afterthought.)_
Well as women know women. No, she must be beaten at her own game.
Flossie must arrive before midnight to-night.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
But she camps at Mooseback.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
There are dogs in Dawson. Now, Archie, this is for you to do. Borrow
a team of fresh dogs somewhere, put your Indian in charge of it, that
one-eyed man, he's faithful, and start him up the trail to Flossie.
Let her think Floyd Vanderlip has sent the dogs to bring her in right
away.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
_(Smiling.)_
Ah, I see. The impatience of the ardent and long-denied lover.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(Smiling in return.)_
And once Flossie is here and gets her arms around Floyd Vanderlip's
neck, Freda Moloof will wait in vain at the water-hole.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
That will settle it. Freda's not the woman to stand knocking her feet
around a water-hole very long for any man.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(Good-naturedly. )_
You seem to know a great deal about what kind of a woman this dancer
is.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
I know enough about her, when it comes to Vanderlip and Flossie, to
think her the best of the boiling... and to have a sneaking regret for
her being beaten this way.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
You may be kind-hearted, Archie, but you are unwise.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
_(Sighing.)_
Oh, well, after the manner of civilized man I submit to my womenkind.
All right, I'll send the dogs at once.
_(Makes a movement to start toward door to right, and Mrs. Eppingwell
starts with him.)_
_(Mrs. Eppingwell, struck suddenly by a new idea, pauses. Capt.
Eppingwell pauses a step in advance and looks at her.)_
What's wrong now?
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Suppose there is some mischance, a delay, and Flossie doesn't get in
by midnight?
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
Then Freda wins.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(Decisively.)_
No, she doesn't.
_(Thinks for a moment.)_
Floyd Vanderlip is coming to the ball. I'll see that he comes. I'll be
very nice to him and watch him closely so that he does not sneak away.
If Flossie fails to arrive, say by half-past eleven, I'll be taken
ill, and I'll ask Vanderlip to take me home; and I'll hold him, no
matter how terribly ill or terribly nice I have to be, until midnight
is well past or until Flossie arrives.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
Then it's my duty to disappear about the time you are taken ill.
MRS. EPPINGWELL
Archie, though I tell you for the thousandth time, you are a perfect
dear. And I can be as terribly nice as I please to Floyd Vanderlip?
_(Capt. Eppingwell laughs and nods, and they continue toward door.)_
MRS. EPPINGWELL
_(While they are pulling on mittens, etc.)_
And now the dogs. Don't delay a moment, Archie, please.
CAPT. EPPINGWELL
The one-eyed man and the six dogs start at once.
_(They go out.)_
_(Only clerks behind counter are left on the stage.)_
_(Nothing happens for a full minute, when Mrs. McFee appears at right,
peeping through door, which she holds ajar. She peers cautiously
about, enters, and sniffs the air several times. Then she smiles a
sour smile of satisfaction.)_
