“I’ve come down to fish sturgeon a couple of months,” he said to
Carmintel.
His eyes flashed with challenge as he spoke, and we noticed the
patrolman’s eyes drop before him.
“That’s all right, Alec,” Carmintel said in a low voice.  “I’ll not
bother you.  Come on into the cabin, and we’ll talk things over,” he
added.
When they had gone inside and shut the doors after them, Charley winked
with slow deliberation at me.  But I was only a youngster, and new to men
and the ways of some men, so I did not understand.  Nor did Charley
explain, though I felt there was something wrong about the business.
Leaving them to their conference, at Charley’s suggestion we boarded our
skiff and pulled over to the Old Steamboat Wharf, where Big Alec’s ark
was lying.  An ark is a house-boat of small though comfortable
dimensions, and is as necessary to the Upper Bay fisherman as are nets
and boats.  We were both curious to see Big Alec’s ark, for history said
that it had been the scene of more than one pitched battle, and that it
was riddled with bullet-holes.
We found the holes (stopped with wooden plugs and painted over), but
there were not so many as I had expected.  Charley noted my look of
disappointment, and laughed; and then to comfort me he gave an authentic
account of one expedition which had descended upon Big Alec’s floating
home to capture him, alive preferably, dead if necessary.  At the end of
half a day’s fighting, the patrolmen had drawn off in wrecked boats, with
one of their number killed and three wounded.  And when they returned
next morning with reinforcements they found only the mooring-stakes of
Big Alec’s ark; the ark itself remained hidden for months in the
fastnesses of the Suisun tules.
“But why was he not hanged for murder?” I demanded.  “Surely the United
States is powerful enough to bring such a man to justice.”
“He gave himself up and stood trial,” Charley answered.  “It cost him
fifty thousand dollars to win the case, which he did on technicalities
and with the aid of the best lawyers in the state.  Every Greek fisherman
on the river contributed to the sum.  Big Alec levied and collected the
tax, for all the world like a king.  The United States may be
all-powerful, my lad, but the fact remains that Big Alec is a king inside
the United States, with a country and subjects all his own.”
“But what are you going to do about his fishing for sturgeon?  He’s bound
to fish with a ‘Chinese line.’”
Charley shrugged his shoulders.  “We’ll see what we will see,” he said
enigmatically.
Now a “Chinese line” is a cunning device invented by the people whose
name it bears.  By a simple system of floats, weights, and anchors,
thousands of hooks, each on a separate leader, are suspended at a
distance of from six inches to a foot above the bottom.  The remarkable
thing about such a line is the hook.  It is barbless, and in place of the
barb, the hook is filed long and tapering to a point as sharp as that of
a needle.  These hoods are only a few inches apart, and when several
thousand of them are suspended just above the bottom, like a fringe, for
a couple of hundred fathoms, they present a formidable obstacle to the
fish that travel along the bottom.
