The tall man and the short man on the _Ghost_ looked up.
“Hello, Taft,” the short man said, with insolent familiarity.  (Among the
bayfarers he had gained the nickname of “The Centipede” on account of his
long arms.)  “Hello, Taft,” he repeated, with the same touch of
insolence.  “Wot ’r you growling about now?”
“Those are my oysters—that’s what I said.  You’ve stolen them from my
beds.”
“Yer mighty wise, ain’t ye?” was the Centipede’s sneering reply.  “S’pose
you can tell your oysters wherever you see ’em?”
“Now, in my experience,” broke in the tall man, “oysters is oysters
wherever you find ’em, an’ they’re pretty much alike all the Bay over,
and the world over, too, for that matter.  We’re not wantin’ to quarrel
with you, Mr. Taft, but we jes’ wish you wouldn’t insinuate that them
oysters is yours an’ that we’re thieves an’ robbers till you can prove
the goods.”
“I know they’re mine; I’d stake my life on it!” Mr. Taft snorted.
“Prove it,” challenged the tall man, who we afterward learned was known
as “The Porpoise” because of his wonderful swimming abilities.
Mr. Taft shrugged his shoulders helplessly.  Of course he could not prove
the oysters to be his, no matter how certain he might be.
“I’d give a thousand dollars to have you men behind the bars!” he cried.
“I’ll give fifty dollars a head for your arrest and conviction, all of
you!”
A roar of laughter went up from the different boats, for the rest of the
pirates had been listening to the discussion.
“There’s more money in oysters,” the Porpoise remarked dryly.
Mr. Taft turned impatiently on his heel and walked away.  From out of the
corner of his eye, Charley noted the way he went.  Several minutes later,
when he had disappeared around a corner, Charley rose lazily to his feet.
I followed him, and we sauntered off in the opposite direction to that
taken by Mr. Taft.
“Come on!  Lively!” Charley whispered, when we passed from the view of
the oyster fleet.
Our course was changed at once, and we dodged around corners and raced up
and down side-streets till Mr. Taft’s generous form loomed up ahead of
us.
“I’m going to interview him about that reward,” Charley explained, as we
rapidly overhauled the oyster-bed owner.  “Neil will be delayed here for
a week, and you and I might as well be doing something in the meantime.
What do you say?”
“Of course, of course,” Mr. Taft said, when Charley had introduced
himself and explained his errand.  “Those thieves are robbing me of
thousands of dollars every year, and I shall be glad to break them up at
any price,—yes, sir, at any price.  As I said, I’ll give fifty dollars a
head, and call it cheap at that.  They’ve robbed my beds, torn down my
signs, terrorized my watchmen, and last year killed one of them.
Couldn’t prove it.  All done in the blackness of night.  All I had was a
dead watchman and no evidence.  The detectives could do nothing.  Nobody
has been able to do anything with those men.  We have never succeeded in
arresting one of them.  So I say, Mr.—What did you say your name was?”
