We rowed with all our strength, but it was slow going with so many boats
in tow.  A pistol cracked from the shoal, a second, and a third; then a
regular fusillade began.  The bullets spat and spat all about us; but
thick clouds had covered the moon, and in the dim darkness it was no more
than random firing.  It was only by chance that we could be hit.
“Wish we had a little steam launch,” I panted.
“I’d just as soon the moon stayed hidden,” Nicholas panted back.
It was slow work, but every stroke carried us farther away from the shoal
and nearer the shore, till at last the shooting died down, and when the
moon did come out we were too far away to be in danger.  Not long
afterward we answered a shoreward hail, and two Whitehall boats, each
pulled by three pairs of oars, darted up to us.  Charley’s welcome face
bent over to us, and he gripped us by the hands while he cried, “Oh, you
joys!  You joys!  Both of you!”
When the flotilla had been landed, Nicholas and I and a watchman rowed
out in one of the Whitehalls, with Charley in the stern-sheets.  Two
other Whitehalls followed us, and as the moon now shone brightly, we
easily made out the oyster pirates on their lonely shoal.  As we drew
closer, they fired a rattling volley from their revolvers, and we
promptly retreated beyond range.
“Lot of time,” Charley said.  “The flood is setting in fast, and by the
time it’s up to their necks there won’t be any fight left in them.”
So we lay on our oars and waited for the tide to do its work.  This was
the predicament of the pirates: because of the big run-out, the tide was
now rushing back like a mill-race, and it was impossible for the
strongest swimmer in the world to make against it the three miles to the
sloops.  Between the pirates and the shore were we, precluding escape in
that direction.  On the other hand, the water was rising rapidly over the
shoals, and it was only a question of a few hours when it would be over
their heads.
It was beautifully calm, and in the brilliant white moonlight we watched
them through our night glasses and told Charley of the voyage of the
_Coal Tar Maggie_.  One o’clock came, and two o’clock, and the pirates
were clustering on the highest shoal, waist-deep in water.
“Now this illustrates the value of imagination,” Charley was saying.
“Taft has been trying for years to get them, but he went at it with bull
strength and failed.  Now we used our heads . . .”
Just then I heard a scarcely audible gurgle of water, and holding up my
hand for silence, I turned and pointed to a ripple slowly widening out in
a growing circle.  It was not more than fifty feet from us.  We kept
perfectly quiet and waited.  After a minute the water broke six feet
away, and a black head and white shoulder showed in the moonlight.  With
a snort of surprise and of suddenly expelled breath, the head and
shoulder went down.
