“Wot a circus!” cried one.
“Tork about yer marine hippodromes,—if this ain’t one, I’d like to know!”
affirmed another.
“Six-days-go-as-yer-please,” announced a third.  “Who says the dagoes
won’t win?”
On the next tack to windward the Greek offered to change places with
Charley.
“Let-a me sail-a de boat,” he demanded.  “I fix-a them, I catch-a them,
sure.”
This was a stroke at Charley’s professional pride, for pride himself he
did upon his boat-sailing abilities; but he yielded the tiller to the
prisoner and took his place at the sheet.  Three times again we made the
circuit, and the Greek found that he could get no more speed out of the
salmon boat than Charley had.
“Better give it up,” one of the sailors advised from above.
The Greek scowled ferociously and shook his fist in his customary
fashion.  In the meanwhile my mind had not been idle, and I had finally
evolved an idea.
“Keep going, Charley, one time more,” I said.
And as we laid out on the next tack to windward, I bent a piece of line
to a small grappling hook I had seen lying in the bail-hole.  The end of
the line I made fast to the ring-bolt in the bow, and with the hook out
of sight I waited for the next opportunity to use it.  Once more they
made their leeward pull down the port side of the _Lancashire Queen_, and
once more we churned down after them before the wind.  Nearer and nearer
we drew, and I was making believe to reach for them as before.  The stern
of the skiff was not six feet away, and they were laughing at me
derisively as they ducked under the ship’s stern.  At that instant I
suddenly arose and threw the grappling iron.  It caught fairly and
squarely on the rail of the skiff, which was jerked backward out of
safety as the rope tautened and the salmon boat ploughed on.
A groan went up from the row of sailors above, which quickly changed to a
cheer as one of the Italians whipped out a long sheath-knife and cut the
rope.  But we had drawn them out of safety, and Charley, from his place
in the stern-sheets, reached over and clutched the stern of the skiff.
The whole thing happened in a second of time, for the first Italian was
cutting the rope and Charley was clutching the skiff when the second
Italian dealt him a rap over the head with an oar, Charley released his
hold and collapsed, stunned, into the bottom of the salmon boat, and the
Italians bent to their oars and escaped back under the ship’s stern.
The Greek took both tiller and sheet and continued the chase around the
_Lancashire Queen_, while I attended to Charley, on whose head a nasty
lump was rapidly rising.  Our sailor audience was wild with delight, and
to a man encouraged the fleeing Italians.  Charley sat up, with one hand
on his head, and gazed about him sheepishly.
