"Let us not make trouble," he began.  "We ask to be left alone.  But if
they do not leave us alone, then is the trouble theirs and the penalty.
My fingers are gone, as you see."  He held up his stumps of hands that
all might see.  "Yet have I the joint of one thumb left, and it can pull
a trigger as firmly as did its lost neighbour in the old days.  We love
Kauai.  Let us live here, or die here, but do not let us go to the prison
of Molokai.  The sickness is not ours.  We have not sinned.  The men who
preached the word of God and the word of Rum brought the sickness with
the coolie slaves who work the stolen land.  I have been a judge.  I know
the law and the justice, and I say to you it is unjust to steal a man's
land, to make that man sick with the Chinese sickness, and then to put
that man in prison for life."
"Life is short, and the days are filled with pain," said Koolau.  "Let us
drink and dance and be happy as we can."
From one of the rocky lairs calabashes were produced and passed round.
The calabashes were filled with the fierce distillation of the root of
the _ti_-plant; and as the liquid fire coursed through them and mounted
to their brains, they forgot that they had once been men and women, for
they were men and women once more.  The woman who wept scalding tears
from open eye-pits was indeed a woman apulse with life as she plucked the
strings of an _ukulele_ and lifted her voice in a barbaric love-call such
as might have come from the dark forest-depths of the primeval world.  The
air tingled with her cry, softly imperious and seductive.  Upon a mat,
timing his rhythm to the woman's song Kiloliana danced.  It was
unmistakable.  Love danced in all his movements, and, next, dancing with
him on the mat, was a woman whose heavy hips and generous breast gave the
lie to her disease-corroded face.  It was a dance of the living dead, for
in their disintegrating bodies life still loved and longed.  Ever the
woman whose sightless eyes ran scalding tears chanted her love-cry, ever
the dancers of love danced in the warm night, and ever the calabashes
went around till in all their brains were maggots crawling of memory and
desire.  And with the woman on the mat danced a slender maid whose face
was beautiful and unmarred, but whose twisted arms that rose and fell
marked the disease's ravage.  And the two idiots, gibbering and mouthing
strange noises, danced apart, grotesque, fantastic, travestying love as
they themselves had been travestied by life.
But the woman's love-cry broke midway, the calabashes were lowered, and
the dancers ceased, as all gazed into the abyss above the sea, where a
rocket flared like a wan phantom through the moonlit air.
"It is the soldiers," said Koolau.  "Tomorrow there will be fighting.  It
is well to sleep and be prepared."
