'Back to back, David. An' will it be fifty paces to the man, or double
the quantity?'
'Fifty,' was the sanguinary reply, grunted out, yet sharply cut.
But the new manila, not prominently displayed, but casually coiled
about Malemute Kid's arm, caught the quick eye of the Irishman, and
thrilled him with a suspicious fear.
'An' what are ye doin' with the rope?' 'Hurry up!' Malemute Kid glanced
at his watch.
'I've a batch of bread in the cabin, and I don't want it to fall.
Besides, my feet are getting cold.' The rest of the men manifested
their impatience in various suggestive ways.
'But the rope, Kid' It's bran' new, an' sure yer bread's not that heavy
it needs raisin' with the like of that?' Bettles by this time had faced
around. Father Roubeau, the humor of the situation just dawning on him,
hid a smile behind his mittened hand.
'No, Lon; this rope was made for a man.' Malemute Kid could be very
impressive on occasion.
'What man?' Bettles was becoming aware of a personal interest.
'The other man.' 'An' which is the one ye'd mane by that?' 'Listen,
Lon--and you, too, Bettles! We've been talking this little trouble of
yours over, and we've come to one conclusion. We know we have no right
to stop your fighting-' 'True for ye, me lad!' 'And we're not going to.
But this much we can do, and shall do--make this the only duel in the
history of Forty-Mile, set an example for every che-cha-qua that comes
up or down the Yukon. The man who escapes killing shall be hanged to
the nearest tree. Now, go ahead!'
Lon smiled dubiously, then his face lighted up. 'Pace her off,
David--fifty paces, wheel, an' niver a cease firin' till a lad's down
for good. 'Tis their hearts'll niver let them do the deed, an' it's
well ye should know it for a true Yankee bluff.'
He started off with a pleased grin on his face, but Malemute Kid halted
him.
'Lon! It's a long while since you first knew me?' 'Many's the day.'
'And you, Bettles?'
'Five year next June high water.' 'And have you once, in all that time,
known me to break my word' Or heard of me breaking it?' Both men shook
their heads, striving to fathom what lay beyond.
'Well, then, what do you think of a promise made by me?' 'As good as
your bond,' from Bettles.
'The thing to safely sling yer hopes of heaven by,' promptly endorsed
Lon McFane.
'Listen! I, Malemute Kid, give you my word--and you know what that
means that the man who is not shot stretches rope within ten minutes
after the shooting.' He stepped back as Pilate might have done after
washing his hands.
A pause and a silence came over the men of Forty-Mile. The sky drew
still closer, sending down a crystal flight of frost--little geometric
designs, perfect, evanescent as a breath, yet destined to exist till
the returning sun had covered half its northern journey.
