Frustrated in the struggle to get the crowd back, the referee fired his
revolver in the air, and the tug-of-war was on. Pandemonium broke loose.
Saxon, protected by the two big men, was near enough to the front to
see much that ensued. The men on the rope pulled and strained till their
faces were red with effort and their joints crackled. The rope was
new, and, as their hands slipped, their wives and daughters sprang in,
scooping up the earth in double handfuls and pouring it on the rope and
the hands of their men to give them better grip.
A stout, middle-aged woman, carried beyond herself by the passion of the
contest, seized the rope and pulled beside her husband, encouraged him
with loud cries. A watcher from the opposing team dragged her screaming
away and was dropped like a steer by an ear-blow from a partisan from
the woman's team. He, in turn, went down, and brawny women joined with
their men in the battle. Vainly the judges and watchers begged,
pleaded, yelled, and swung with their fists. Men, as well as women,
were springing in to the rope and pulling. No longer was it team against
team, but all Oakland against all San Francisco, festooned with a
free-for-all fight. Hands overlaid hands two and three deep in the
struggle to grasp the rope. And hands that found no holds, doubled into
bunches of knuckles that impacted on the jaws of the watchers who strove
to tear hand-holds from the rope.
Bert yelped with joy, while Mary clung to him, mad with fear. Close to
the rope the fighters were going down and being trampled. The dust arose
in clouds, while from beyond, all around, unable to get into the battle,
could be heard the shrill and impotent rage-screams and rage-yells of
women and men.
"Dirty work, dirty work," Billy muttered over and over; and, though he
saw much that occurred, assisted by the friendly Irishman he was coolly
and safely working Saxon back out of the melee.
At last the break came. The losing team, accompanied by its host of
volunteers, was dragged in a rush over the ground and disappeared under
the avalanche of battling forms of the onlookers.
Leaving Saxon under the protection of the Irishman in an outer eddy
of calm, Billy plunged back into the mix-up. Several minutes later he
emerged with the missing couple--Bert bleeding from a blow on the ear,
but hilarious, and Mary rumpled and hysterical.
"This ain't sport," she kept repeating. "It's a shame, a dirty shame."
"We got to get outa this," Billy said. "The fun's only commenced."
"Aw, wait," Bert begged. "It's worth eight dollars. It's cheap at any
price. I ain't seen so many black eyes and bloody noses in a month of
Sundays."
"Well, go on back an' enjoy yourself," Billy commended. "I'll take the
girls up there on the side hill where we can look on. But I won't give
much for your good looks if some of them Micks lands on you."
