There were few couples on the floor when they arrived at the pavilion,
and the two girls essayed the first waltz together.
"There's Bert now," Saxon whispered, as they came around the second
time.
"Don't take any notice of them," Mary whispered back. "We'll just keep
on goin'. They needn't think we're chasin' after them."
But Saxon noted the heightened color in the other's cheek, and felt her
quicker breathing.
"Did you see that other one?" Mary asked, as she backed Saxon in a long
slide across the far end of the pavilion. "That was Billy Roberts. Bert
said he'd come. He'll take you to dinner, and Bert'll take me. It's
goin' to be a swell day, you'll see. My! I only wish the music'll hold
out till we can get back to the other end."
Down the floor they danced, on man-trapping and dinner-getting intent,
two fresh young things that undeniably danced well and that were
delightfully surprised when the music stranded them perilously near to
their desire.
Bert and Mary addressed each other by their given names, but to Saxon
Bert was "Mr. Wanhope," though he called her by her first name. The only
introduction was of Saxon and Billy Roberts. Mary carried it off with a
flurry of nervous carelessness.
"Mr. Robert--Miss Brown. She's my best friend. Her first name's Saxon.
Ain't it a scream of a name?"
"Sounds good to me," Billy retorted, hat off and hand extended. "Pleased
to meet you, Miss Brown."
As their hands clasped and she felt the teamster callouses on his palm,
her quick eyes saw a score of things. About all that he saw was her
eyes, and then it was with a vague impression that they were blue. Not
till later in the day did he realize that they were gray. She, on
the contrary, saw his eyes as they really were--deep blue, wide,
and handsome in a sullen-boyish way. She saw that they were
straight-looking, and she liked them, as she had liked the glimpse she
had caught of his hand, and as she liked the contact of his hand itself.
Then, too, but not sharply, she had perceived the short, square-set
nose, the rosiness of cheek, and the firm, short upper lip, ere delight
centered her flash of gaze on the well-modeled, large clean mouth where
red lips smiled clear of the white, enviable teeth. A BOY, A GREAT BIG
MAN-BOY, was her thought; and, as they smiled at each other and their
hands slipped apart, she was startled by a glimpse of his hair--short
and crisp and sandy, hinting almost of palest gold save that it was too
flaxen to hint of gold at all.
So blond was he that she was reminded of stage-types she had seen, such
as Ole Olson and Yon Yonson; but there resemblance ceased. It was a
matter of color only, for the eyes were dark-lashed and -browed, and
were cloudy with temperament rather than staring a child-gaze of wonder,
and the suit of smooth brown cloth had been made by a tailor. Saxon
appraised the suit on the instant, and her secret judgment was NOT A
CENT LESS THAN FIFTY DOLLARS. Further, he had none of the awkwardness
of the Scandinavian immigrant. On the contrary, he was one of those
rare individuals that radiate muscular grace through the ungraceful
man-garments of civilization. Every movement was supple, slow, and
apparently considered. This she did not see nor analyze. She saw only a
clothed man with grace of carriage and movement. She felt, rather than
perceived, the calm and certitude of all the muscular play of him, and
she felt, too, the promise of easement and rest that was especially
grateful and craved-for by one who had incessantly, for six days and at
top-speed, ironed fancy starch. As the touch of his hand had been good,
so, to her, this subtler feel of all of him, body and mind, was good.
