"'And further yet, because I have used my wealth unwisely, and to
oppress ye, O my children, do I make gifts of the kerosene can to
Moosu, and the gooseneck, and the gun-barrel, and the copper
kettle.  Therefore, I can gather to me no more possessions, and
when ye are athirst for hooch, he will quench ye and without
robbery.  For he is a great man, and God speaketh through his lips.
"'And yet further, my heart is softened, and I have repented me of
my madness.  I, who am a fool and a son of fools; I, who am the
slave of the bad god Biz-e-Nass; I, who see thy empty bellies and
knew not wherewith to fill them--why shall I be chief, and sit
above thee, and rule to thine own destruction?  Why should I do
this, which is not good?  But Moosu, who is shaman, and who is wise
above men, is so made that he can rule with a soft hand and justly.
And because of the things I have related do I make abdication and
give my chiefship to Moosu, who alone knoweth how ye may be fed in
this day when there be no meat in the land.'
"At this there was a great clapping of hands, and the people cried,
'KLOSHE!  KLOSHE!' which means 'good.'  I had seen the wonder-worry
in Moosu's eyes; for he could not understand, and was fearful of my
white man's wisdom.  I had met his wishes all along the line, and
even anticipated some; and standing there, self-shorn of all my
power, he knew the time did not favour to stir the people against
me.
"Before they could disperse I made announcement that while the
still went to Moosu, whatever hooch I possessed went to the people.
Moosu tried to protest at this, for never had we permitted more
than a handful to be drunk at a time; but they cried, 'KLOSHE!
KLOSHE!' and made festival before my door.  And while they waxed
uproarious without, as the liquor went to their heads, I held
council within with Angeit and the faithful ones.  I set them the
tasks they were to do, and put into their mouths the words they
were to say.  Then I slipped away to a place back in the woods
where I had two sleds, well loaded, with teams of dogs that were
not overfed.  Spring was at hand, you see, and there was a crust to
the snow; so it was the best time to take the way south.  Moreover,
the tobacco was gone.  There I waited, for I had nothing to fear.
Did they bestir themselves on my trail, their dogs were too fat,
and themselves too lean, to overtake me; also, I deemed their
bestirring would be of an order for which I had made due
preparation.
"First came a faithful one, running, and after him another.  'O
master,' the first cried, breathless, 'there be great confusion in
the village, and no man knoweth his own mind, and they be of many
minds.  Everybody hath drunken overmuch, and some be stringing
bows, and some be quarrelling one with another.  Never was there
such a trouble.'
