He had brain sufficient to know the need of buying brains and to pay a
tidy bit over the current market price for the most capable brains. And
he had brain sufficient to direct the brains he bought to a profitable
conclusion.
And yet, he was just turned forty was clear-eyed, calm-hearted,
hearty-pulsed, man-strong; and yet, his history, until he was thirty,
had been harum-scarum and erratic to the superlative. He had run away
from a millionaire home when he was thirteen. He had won enviable
college honors ere he was twenty-one and after that he had known all
the purple ports of the purple seas, and, with cool head, hot heart,
and laughter, played every risk that promised and provided in the wild
world of adventure that he had lived to see pass under the sobriety of
law.
In the old days of San Francisco Forrest had been a name to conjure
with. The Forrest Mansion had been one of the pioneer palaces on Nob
Hill where dwelt the Floods, the Mackays, the Crockers, and the
O'Briens. "Lucky" Richard Forrest, the father, had arrived, via the
Isthmus, straight from old New England, keenly commercial, interested
before his departure in clipper ships and the building of clipper
ships, and interested immediately after his arrival in water-front real
estate, river steamboats, mines, of course, and, later, in the draining
of the Nevada Comstock and the construction of the Southern Pacific.
He played big, he won big, he lost big; but he won always more than he
lost, and what he paid out at one game with one hand, he drew back with
his other hand at another game. His winnings from the Comstock he sank
into the various holes of the bottomless Daffodil Group in Eldorado
County. The wreckage from the Benicia Line he turned into the Napa
Consolidated, which was a quicksilver venture, and it earned him five
thousand per cent. What he lost in the collapse of the Stockton boom
was more than balanced by the realty appreciation of his key-holdings
at Sacramento and Oakland.
And, to cap it all, when "Lucky" Richard Forrest had lost everything in
a series of calamities, so that San Francisco debated what price his
Nob Hill palace would fetch at auction, he grubstaked one, Del Nelson,
to a prospecting in Mexico. As soberly set down in history, the result
of the said Del Nelson's search for quartz was the Harvest Group,
including the fabulous and inexhaustible Tattlesnake, Voice, City,
Desdemona, Bullfrog, and Yellow Boy claims. Del Nelson, astounded by
his achievement, within the year drowned himself in an enormous
quantity of cheap whisky, and, the will being incontestible through
lack of kith and kin, left his half to Lucky Richard Forrest.
Dick Forrest was the son of his father. Lucky Richard, a man of
boundless energy and enterprise, though twice married and twice
widowed, had not been blessed with children. His third marriage
occurred in 1872, when he was fifty-eight, and in 1874, although he
lost the mother, a twelve-pound boy, stout-barreled and husky-lunged,
remained to be brought up by a regiment of nurses in the palace on Nob
Hill.
