“Then were you all crazy,” commented Deer-Runner.
“Then were we indeed all crazy,” Long-Beard agreed.  “It was strange, all
of it.  There was Split-Nose.  He said everything was wrong.  He said it
was true that we grew strong by adding our strength together.  And he
said that, when we first formed the tribe, it was right that the men
whose strength hurt the tribe should be shorn of their strength—men who
bashed their brothers’ heads and stole their brothers’ wives.  And now,
he said, the tribe was not getting stronger, but was getting weaker,
because there were men with another kind of strength that were hurting
the tribe—men who had the strength of the land, like Three-Legs; who had
the strength of the fish-trap, like Little-Belly; who had the strength of
all the goat-meat, like Pig-Jaw.  The thing to do, Split-Nose said, was
to shear these men of their evil strength; to make them go to work, all
of them, and to let no man eat who did not work.
“And the Bug sang another song about men like Split-Nose, who wanted to
go back, and live in trees.
“Yet Split-Nose said no; that he did not want to go back, but ahead; that
they grew strong only as they added their strength together; and that, if
the Fish-Eaters would add their strength to the Meat-Eaters, there would
be no more fighting and no more watchers and no more guards, and that,
with all men working, there would be so much food that each man would
have to work not more than two hours a day.
“Then the Bug sang again, and he sang that Split-Nose was lazy, and he
sang also the ‘Song of the Bees.’  It was a strange song, and those who
listened were made mad, as from the drinking of strong fire-brew.  The
song was of a swarm of bees, and of a robber wasp who had come in to live
with the bees and who was stealing all their honey.  The wasp was lazy
and told them there was no need to work; also, he told them to make
friends with the bears, who were not honey-stealers but only very good
friends.  And the Bug sang in crooked words, so that those who listened
knew that the swarm was the Sea Valley tribe, that the bears were the
Meat-Eaters, and that the lazy wasp was Split-Nose.  And when the Bug
sang that the bees listened to the wasp till the swarm was near to
perishing, the people growled and snarled, and when the Bug sang that at
last the good bees arose and stung the wasp to death, the people picked
up stones from the ground and stoned Split-Nose to death till there was
naught to be seen of him but the heap of stones they had flung on top of
him.  And there were many poor people who worked long and hard and had
not enough to eat that helped throw the stones on Split-Nose.
