The Thunderer was another of Ngurn’s names for the mysterious deity.
Also at times was he called The Loud Shouter, The God-Voiced, The
Bird-Throated, The One with the Throat Sweet as the Throat of the
Honey-Bird, The Sun Singer, and The Star-Born.
Why The Star-Born?  In vain Bassett interrogated Ngurn.  According to
that old devil-devil doctor, the Red One had always been, just where he
was at present, for ever singing and thundering his will over men.  But
Ngurn’s father, wrapped in decaying grass-matting and hanging even then
over their heads among the smoky rafters of the devil-devil house, had
held otherwise.  That departed wise one had believed that the Red One
came from out of the starry night, else why—so his argument had run—had
the old and forgotten ones passed his name down as the Star-Born?
Bassett could not but recognize something cogent in such argument.  But
Ngurn affirmed the long years of his long life, wherein he had gazed upon
many starry nights, yet never had he found a star on grass land or in
jungle depth—and he had looked for them.  True, he had beheld shooting
stars (this in reply to Bassett’s contention); but likewise had he beheld
the phosphorescence of fungoid growths and rotten meat and fireflies on
dark nights, and the flames of wood-fires and of blazing candle-nuts; yet
what were flame and blaze and glow when they had flamed and blazed and
glowed?  Answer: memories, memories only, of things which had ceased to
be, like memories of matings accomplished, of feasts forgotten, of
desires that were the ghosts of desires, flaring, flaming, burning, yet
unrealized in achievement of easement and satisfaction.  Where was the
appetite of yesterday? the roasted flesh of the wild pig the hunter’s
arrow failed to slay? the maid, unwed and dead ere the young man knew
her?
A memory was not a star, was Ngurn’s contention.  How could a memory be a
star?  Further, after all his long life he still observed the starry
night-sky unaltered.  Never had he noted the absence of a single star
from its accustomed place.  Besides, stars were fire, and the Red One was
not fire—which last involuntary betrayal told Bassett nothing.
“Will the Red One speak to-morrow?” he queried.
Ngurn shrugged his shoulders as who should say.
“And the day after?—and the day after that?” Bassett persisted.
“I would like to have the curing of your head,” Ngurn changed the
subject.  “It is different from any other head.  No devil-devil has a
head like it.  Besides, I would cure it well.  I would take months and
months.  The moons would come and the moons would go, and the smoke would
be very slow, and I should myself gather the materials for the curing
smoke.  The skin would not wrinkle.  It would be as smooth as your skin
now.”
He stood up, and from the dim rafters, grimed with the smoking of
countless heads, where day was no more than a gloom, took down a
matting-wrapped parcel and began to open it.
