"The Gringos say it is a cruel sport--no?" said Luis Cervallos. "That it
is not humane. That it is bad for the bull. No?"
"No," said John Harned. "The bull does not count for much. It is bad for
those that look on. It is degrading to those that look on. It teaches
them to delight in animal suffering. It is cowardly for five men to
fight one stupid bull. Therefore those that look on learn to be cowards.
The bull dies, but those that look on live and the lesson is learned.
The bravery of men is not nourished by scenes of cowardice."
Maria Valenzuela said nothing. Neither did she look at him. But she
heard every word and her cheeks were white with anger. She looked out
across the ring and fanned herself, but I saw that her hand trembled.
Nor did John Harned look at her. He went on as though she were not
there. He, too, was angry, coldly angry.
"It is the cowardly sport of a cowardly people," he said.
"Ah," said Luis Cervallos softly, "you think you understand us."
"I understand now the Spanish Inquisition," said John Harned. "It must
have been more delightful than bull-fighting."
Luis Cervallos smiled but said nothing. He glanced at Maria Valenzuela,
and knew that the bull-fight in the box was won. Never would she have
further to do with the Gringo who spoke such words. But neither Luis
Cervallos nor I was prepared for the outcome of the day. I fear we do
not understand the Gringos. How were we to know that John Harned, who
was so coldly angry, should go suddenly mad! But mad he did go, as you
shall see. The bull did not count for much--he said so himself. Then why
should the horse count for so much? That I cannot understand. The mind
of John Harned lacked logic. That is the only explanation.
"It is not usual to have horses in the bull-ring at Quito," said Luis
Cervallos, looking up from the program. "In Spain they always have them.
But to-day, by special permission we shall have them. When the next bull
comes on there will be horses and picadors-you know, the men who carry
lances and ride the horses."
"The bull is doomed from the first," said John Harned. "Are the horses
then likewise doomed!"
"They are blindfolded so that they may not see the bull," said Luis
Cervallos. "I have seen many horses killed. It is a brave sight."
"I have seen the bull slaughtered," said John Harned "I will now see the
horse slaughtered, so that I may understand more fully the fine points
of this noble sport."
"They are old horses," said Luis Cervallos, "that are not good for
anything else."
"I see," said John Harned.
The third bull came on, and soon against it were both capadors and
picadors. One picador took his stand directly below us. I agree, it was
a thin and aged horse he rode, a bag of bones covered with mangy hide.
