"Everybody guesses over it," she warned, while inwardly she was puzzled
that she should at the same time be glad and regretful that he did not
fight any more.
"Not me," he was saying. "I'm a wooz at weight-guessin'. Just you watch
me." He regarded her critically, and it was patent that warm approval
played its little rivalry with the judgment of his gaze. "Wait a
minute."
He reached over to her and felt her arm at the biceps. The pressure of
the encircling fingers was firm and honest, and Saxon thrilled to it.
There was magic in this man-boy. She would have known only irritation
had Bert or any other man felt her arm. But this man! IS HE THE MAN? she
was questioning, when he voiced his conclusion.
"Your clothes don't weigh more'n seven pounds. And seven from--hum--say
one hundred an' twenty-three--one hundred an' sixteen is your stripped
weight."
But at the penultimate word, Mary cried out with sharp reproof:
"Why, Billy Roberts, people don't talk about such things."
He looked at her with slow-growing, uncomprehending surprise.
"What things?" he demanded finally.
"There you go again! You ought to be ashamed of yourself. Look! You've
got Saxon blushing!"
"I am not," Saxon denied indignantly.
"An' if you keep on, Mary, you'll have me blushing," Billy growled. "I
guess I know what's right an' what ain't. It ain't what a guy says, but
what he thinks. An' I'm thinkin' right, an' Saxon knows it. An' she an'
I ain't thinkin' what you're thinkin' at all."
"Oh! Oh!" Mary cried. "You're gettin' worse an' worse. I never think
such things."
"Whoa, Mary! Back up!" Bert checked her peremptorily. "You're in the
wrong stall. Billy never makes mistakes like that."
"But he needn't be so raw," she persisted.
"Come on, Mary, an' be good, an' cut that stuff," was Billy's dismissal
of her, as he turned to Saxon. "How near did I come to it?"
"One hundred and twenty-two," she answered, looking deliberately at
Mary. "One twenty two with my clothes."
Billy burst into hearty laughter, in which Bert joined.
"I don't care," Mary protested, "You're terrible, both of you--an' you,
too, Saxon. I'd never a-thought it of you."
"Listen to me, kid," Bert began soothingly, as his arm slipped around
her waist.
But in the false excitement she had worked herself into, Mary rudely
repulsed the arm, and then, fearing that she had wounded her lover's
feelings, she took advantage of the teasing and banter to recover
her good humor. His arm was permitted to return, and with heads bent
together, they talked in whispers.
Billy discreetly began to make conversation with Saxon.
"Say, you know, your name is a funny one. I never heard it tagged on
anybody before. But it's all right. I like it."
"My mother gave it to me. She was educated, and knew all kinds of words.
She was always reading books, almost until she died. And she wrote lots
and lots. I've got some of her poetry published in a San Jose newspaper
long ago. The Saxons were a race of people--she told me all about them
when I was a little girl. They were wild, like Indians, only they were
white. And they had blue eyes, and yellow hair, and they were awful
fighters."
