By the time Cassiar Bar was reached, he was so weak that he was falling
repeatedly in the traces. The Scotch half-breed called a halt and took
him out of the team, making the next dog, Sol-leks, fast to the sled.
His intention was to rest Dave, letting him run free behind the sled.
Sick as he was, Dave resented being taken out, grunting and growling
while the traces were unfastened, and whimpering broken-heartedly when
he saw Sol-leks in the position he had held and served so long. For the
pride of trace and trail was his, and, sick unto death, he could not
bear that another dog should do his work.
When the sled started, he floundered in the soft snow alongside the
beaten trail, attacking Sol-leks with his teeth, rushing against him and
trying to thrust him off into the soft snow on the other side, striving
to leap inside his traces and get between him and the sled, and all the
while whining and yelping and crying with grief and pain. The half-breed
tried to drive him away with the whip; but he paid no heed to the
stinging lash, and the man had not the heart to strike harder. Dave
refused to run quietly on the trail behind the sled, where the going was
easy, but continued to flounder alongside in the soft snow, where the
going was most difficult, till exhausted. Then he fell, and lay where he
fell, howling lugubriously as the long train of sleds churned by.
With the last remnant of his strength he managed to stagger along behind
till the train made another stop, when he floundered past the sleds to
his own, where he stood alongside Sol-leks. His driver lingered a moment
to get a light for his pipe from the man behind. Then he returned and
started his dogs. They swung out on the trail with remarkable lack of
exertion, turned their heads uneasily, and stopped in surprise. The
driver was surprised, too; the sled had not moved. He called his
comrades to witness the sight. Dave had bitten through both of
Sol-leks's traces, and was standing directly in front of the sled in his
proper place.
He pleaded with his eyes to remain there. The driver was perplexed. His
comrades talked of how a dog could break its heart through being denied
the work that killed it, and recalled instances they had known, where
dogs, too old for the toil, or injured, had died because they were cut
out of the traces. Also, they held it a mercy, since Dave was to die
anyway, that he should die in the traces, heart-easy and content. So
he was harnessed in again, and proudly he pulled as of old, though more
than once he cried out involuntarily from the bite of his inward hurt.
Several times he fell down and was dragged in the traces, and once the
sled ran upon him so that he limped thereafter in one of his hind legs.
