"McCready and Swanson."
"Sir!" Wolf Larsen thundered.
"McCready and Swanson, sir," the boy corrected, his eyes burning with a
bitter light.
"Who got the advance money?"
"They did, sir."
"I thought as much.  And damned glad you were to let them have it.
Couldn't make yourself scarce too quick, with several gentlemen you may
have heard of looking for you."
The boy metamorphosed into a savage on the instant.  His body bunched
together as though for a spring, and his face became as an infuriated
beast's as he snarled, "It's a--"
"A what?" Wolf Larsen asked, a peculiar softness in his voice, as though
he were overwhelmingly curious to hear the unspoken word.
The boy hesitated, then mastered his temper.  "Nothin', sir.  I take it
back."
"And you have shown me I was right."  This with a gratified smile.  "How
old are you?"
"Just turned sixteen, sir,"
"A lie.  You'll never see eighteen again.  Big for your age at that, with
muscles like a horse.  Pack up your kit and go for'ard into the fo'c'sle.
You're a boat-puller now.  You're promoted; see?"
Without waiting for the boy's acceptance, the captain turned to the
sailor who had just finished the gruesome task of sewing up the corpse.
"Johansen, do you know anything about navigation?"
"No, sir,"
"Well, never mind; you're mate just the same.  Get your traps aft into
the mate's berth."
"Ay, ay, sir," was the cheery response, as Johansen started forward.
In the meantime the erstwhile cabin-boy had not moved.  "What are you
waiting for?" Wolf Larsen demanded.
"I didn't sign for boat-puller, sir," was the reply.  "I signed for
cabin-boy.  An' I don't want no boat-pullin' in mine."
"Pack up and go for'ard."
This time Wolf Larsen's command was thrillingly imperative.  The boy
glowered sullenly, but refused to move.
Then came another stirring of Wolf Larsen's tremendous strength.  It was
utterly unexpected, and it was over and done with between the ticks of
two seconds.  He had sprung fully six feet across the deck and driven his
fist into the other's stomach.  At the same moment, as though I had been
struck myself, I felt a sickening shock in the pit of my stomach.  I
instance this to show the sensitiveness of my nervous organization at the
time, and how unused I was to spectacles of brutality.  The
cabin-boy--and he weighed one hundred and sixty-five at the very
least--crumpled up.  His body wrapped limply about the fist like a wet
rag about a stick.  He lifted into the air, described a short curve, and
struck the deck alongside the corpse on his head and shoulders, where he
lay and writhed about in agony.
"Well?" Larsen asked of me.  "Have you made up your mind?"
I had glanced occasionally at the approaching schooner, and it was now
almost abreast of us and not more than a couple of hundred yards away.
It was a very trim and neat little craft.  I could see a large, black
number on one of its sails, and I had seen pictures of pilot-boats.
