But that is not the Hawaiian queerness I started out to tell.  Only one
cannot speak of things Hawaiian without mentioning the missionaries.
There is Jack Kersdale, the man I wanted to tell about; he came of
missionary stock.  That is, on his grandmother's side.  His grandfather
was old Benjamin Kersdale, a Yankee trader, who got his start for a
million in the old days by selling cheap whiskey and square-face gin.
There's another queer thing.  The old missionaries and old traders were
mortal enemies.  You see, their interests conflicted.  But their children
made it up by intermarrying and dividing the island between them.
Life in Hawaii is a song.  That's the way Stoddard put it in his "Hawaii
Noi":--
   "Thy life is music--Fate the notes prolong!
   Each isle a stanza, and the whole a song."
And he was right.  Flesh is golden there.  The native women are sun-ripe
Junos, the native men bronzed Apollos.  They sing, and dance, and all are
flower-bejewelled and flower-crowned.  And, outside the rigid "Missionary
Crowd," the white men yield to the climate and the sun, and no matter how
busy they may be, are prone to dance and sing and wear flowers behind
their ears and in their hair.  Jack Kersdale was one of these fellows.  He
was one of the busiest men I ever met.  He was a several-times
millionaire.  He was a sugar-king, a coffee planter, a rubber pioneer, a
cattle rancher, and a promoter of three out of every four new enterprises
launched in the islands.  He was a society man, a club man, a yachtsman,
a bachelor, and withal as handsome a man as was ever doted upon by mammas
with marriageable daughters.  Incidentally, he had finished his education
at Yale, and his head was crammed fuller with vital statistics and
scholarly information concerning Hawaii Nei than any other islander I
ever encountered.  He turned off an immense amount of work, and he sang
and danced and put flowers in his hair as immensely as any of the idlers.
He had grit, and had fought two duels--both, political--when he was no
more than a raw youth essaying his first adventures in politics.  In
fact, he played a most creditable and courageous part in the last
revolution, when the native dynasty was overthrown; and he could not have
been over sixteen at the time.  I am pointing out that he was no coward,
in order that you may appreciate what happens later on.  I've seen him in
the breaking yard at the Haleakala Ranch, conquering a four-year-old
brute that for two years had defied the pick of Von Tempsky's cow-boys.
And I must tell of one other thing.  It was down in Kona,--or up, rather,
for the Kona people scorn to live at less than a thousand feet elevation.
We were all on the _lanai_ of Doctor Goodhue's bungalow.  I was talking
with Dottie Fairchild when it happened.  A big centipede--it was seven
inches, for we measured it afterwards--fell from the rafters overhead
squarely into her coiffure.  I confess, the hideousness of it paralysed
me.  I couldn't move.  My mind refused to work.  There, within two feet
of me, the ugly venomous devil was writhing in her hair.  It threatened
at any moment to fall down upon her exposed shoulders--we had just come
out from dinner.
