"'And this is very wrong,' I made to answer; 'for we be better men,
Moosu, than these people who walk in darkness.  Further, we should
rest and grow strong, for the way south is long, and on that trail
the weak cannot prosper.'"
"'But we have nothing,' he objected, looking about him at the
rotten timbers of the igloo, the stench of the ancient walrus meat
that had been our supper disgusting his nostrils.  'And on this
fare we cannot thrive.  We have nothing save the bottle of "pain-
killer," which will not fill emptiness, so we must bend to the yoke
of the unbeliever and become hewers of wood and drawers of water.
And there be good things in this place, the which we may not have.
Ah, master, never has my nose lied to me, and I have followed it to
secret caches and among the fur-bales of the igloos.  Good
provender did these people extort from the poor whalemen, and this
provender has wandered into few hands.  The woman Ipsukuk, who
dwelleth in the far end of the village next she igloo of the chief,
possesseth much flour and sugar, and even have my eyes told me of
molasses smeared on her face.  And in the igloo of Tummasook, the
chief, there be tea--have I not seen the old pig guzzling?  And the
shaman owneth a caddy of "Star" and two buckets of prime smoking.
And what have we?  Nothing!  Nothing!'
"But I was stunned by the word he brought of the tobacco, and made
no answer.
"And Moosu, what of his own desire, broke silence:  'And there be
Tukeliketa, daughter of a big hunter and wealthy man.  A likely
girl.  Indeed, a very nice girl.'
"I figured hard during the night while Moosu snored, for I could
not bear the thought of the tobacco so near which I could not
smoke.  True, as he had said, we had nothing.  But the way became
clear to me, and in the morning I said to him:  'Go thou cunningly
abroad, after thy fashion, and procure me some sort of bone,
crooked like a goose-neck, and hollow.  Also, walk humbly, but have
eyes awake to the lay of pots and pans and cooking contrivances.
And remember, mine is the white man's wisdom, and do what I have
bid you, with sureness and despatch.'
"While he was away I placed the whale-oil cooking lamp in the
middle of the igloo, and moved the mangy sleeping furs back that I
might have room.  Then I took apart his gun and put the barrel by
handy, and afterwards braided many wicks from the cotton that the
women gather wild in the summer.  When he came back, it was with
the bone I had commanded, and with news that in the igloo of
Tummasook there was a five-gallon kerosene can and a big copper
kettle.  So I said he had done well and we would tarry through the
day.  And when midnight was near I made harangue to him.
