'But the best of the sight was to come. Just after clearin' the tail of
the riffle, the water turns quick the color of milk, an' the top of it
in wee circles, as when the graylin' rise in the spring, or there's a
splatter of wet from the sky. 'Twas the anchor-ice comin' up. To the
right, to the lift, as far as iver a man cud see, the water was covered
with the same.
An' like so much porridge it was, slickin' along the bark of the canoe,
stickin' like glue to the paddles. It's many's the time I shot the
self-same riffle before, and it's many's the time after, but niver a
wink of the same have I seen. 'Twas the sight of a lifetime.' 'Do
tell!' dryly commented Bettles. 'D'ye think I'd b'lieve such a yarn?
I'd ruther say the glister of light'd gone to your eyes, and the snap
of the air to your tongue.' ''Twas me own eyes that beheld it, an' if
Sitka Charley was here, he'd be the lad to back me.' 'But facts is
facts, an' they ain't no gettin' round 'em. It ain't in the nature of
things for the water furtherest away from the air to freeze first.'
'But me own eyes-' 'Don't git het up over it,' admonished Bettles, as
the quick Celtic anger began to mount.
'Then yer not after belavin' me?' 'Sence you're so blamed forehanded
about it, no; I'd b'lieve nature first, and facts.'
'Is it the lie ye'd be givin' me?' threatened Lon. 'Ye'd better be
askin' that Siwash wife of yours. I'll lave it to her, for the truth I
spake.' Bettles flared up in sudden wrath. The Irishman had unwittingly
wounded him; for his wife was the half-breed daughter of a Russian
fur-trader, married to him in the Greek Mission of Nulato, a thousand
miles or so down the Yukon, thus being of much higher caste than the
common Siwash, or native, wife. It was a mere Northland nuance, which
none but the Northland adventurer may understand.
'I reckon you kin take it that way,' was his deliberate affirmation.
The next instant Lon McFane had stretched him on the floor, the circle
was broken up, and half a dozen men had stepped between.
Bettles came to his feet, wiping the blood from his mouth. 'It hain't
new, this takin' and payin' of blows, and don't you never think but
that this will be squared.' 'An' niver in me life did I take the lie
from mortal man,' was the retort courteous. 'An' it's an avil day I'll
not be to hand, waitin' an' willin' to help ye lift yer debts, barrin'
no manner of way.'
'Still got that 38-55?' Lon nodded.
'But you'd better git a more likely caliber. Mine'll rip holes through
you the size of walnuts.'
'Niver fear; it's me own slugs smell their way with soft noses, an'
they'll spread like flapjacks against the coming out beyand. An'
when'll I have the pleasure of waitin' on ye? The waterhole's a
strikin' locality.' ''Tain't bad. Jest be there in an hour, and you
won't set long on my coming.' Both men mittened and left the Post,
their ears closed to the remonstrances of their comrades. It was such a
little thing; yet with such men, little things, nourished by quick
tempers and stubborn natures, soon blossomed into big things.
