Besides, the art of burning to bedrock still lay in the womb of the
future, and the men of Forty-Mile, shut in by the long Arctic winter,
grew high-stomached with overeating and enforced idleness, and became
as irritable as do the bees in the fall of the year when the hives are
overstocked with honey.
There was no law in the land. The mounted police was also a thing of
the future. Each man measured an offense, and meted out the punishment
inasmuch as it affected himself.
Rarely had combined action been necessary, and never in all the dreary
history of the camp had the eighth article of the Decalogue been
violated.
Big Jim Belden called an impromptu meeting. Scruff Mackenzie was placed
as temporary chairman, and a messenger dispatched to solicit Father
Roubeau's good offices. Their position was paradoxical, and they knew
it. By the right of might could they interfere to prevent the duel; yet
such action, while in direct line with their wishes, went counter to
their opinions. While their rough-hewn, obsolete ethics recognized the
individual prerogative of wiping out blow with blow, they could not
bear to think of two good comrades, such as Bettles and McFane, meeting
in deadly battle. Deeming the man who would not fight on provocation a
dastard, when brought to the test it seemed wrong that he should fight.
But a scurry of moccasins and loud cries, rounded off with a
pistol-shot, interrupted the discussion. Then the storm-doors opened
and Malemute Kid entered, a smoking Colt's in his hand, and a merry
light in his eye.
'I got him.' He replaced the empty shell, and added, 'Your dog,
Scruff.' 'Yellow Fang?'
Mackenzie asked.
'No; the lop-eared one.' 'The devil! Nothing the matter with him.'
'Come out and take a look.' 'That's all right after all. Buess he's got
'em, too. Yellow Fang came back this morning and took a chunk out of
him, and came near to making a widower of me. Made a rush for Zarinska,
but she whisked her skirts in his face and escaped with the loss of the
same and a good roll in the snow. Then he took to the woods again. Hope
he don't come back. Lost any yourself?' 'One--the best one of the
pack--Shookum. Started amuck this morning, but didn't get very far. Ran
foul of Sitka Charley's team, and they scattered him all over the
street. And now two of them are loose, and raging mad; so you see he
got his work in. The dog census will be small in the spring if we don't
do something.'
'And the man census, too.' 'How's that? Who's in trouble now?' 'Oh,
Bettles and Lon McFane had an argument, and they'll be down by the
waterhole in a few minutes to settle it.' The incident was repeated for
his benefit, and Malemute Kid, accustomed to an obedience which his
fellow men never failed to render, took charge of the affair. His
quickly formulated plan was explained, and they promised to follow his
lead implicitly.
