"'This chief, this Tummasook, hath a copper kettle, likewise a
kerosene can.'  I put a rock, smooth and wave-washed, in Moosu's
hand.  'The camp is hushed and the stars are winking.  Go thou,
creep into the chief's igloo softly, and smite him thus upon the
belly, and hard.  And let the meat and good grub of the days to
come put strength into thine arm.  There will be uproar and outcry,
and the village will come hot afoot.  But be thou unafraid.  Veil
thy movements and lose thy form in the obscurity of the night and
the confusion of men.  And when the woman Ipsukuk is anigh thee,--
she who smeareth her face with molasses,--do thou smite her
likewise, and whosoever else that possesseth flour and cometh to
thy hand.  Then do thou lift thy voice in pain and double up with
clasped hands, and make outcry in token that thou, too, hast felt
the visitation of the night.  And in this way shall we achieve
honour and great possessions, and the caddy of "Star" and the prime
smoking, and thy Tukeliketa, who is a likely maiden.'
"When he had departed on this errand, I bided patiently in the
shack, and the tobacco seemed very near.  Then there was a cry of
affright in the night, that became an uproar and assailed the sky.
I seized the 'pain-killer' and ran forth.  There was much noise,
and a wailing among the women, and fear sat heavily on all.
Tummasook and the woman Ipsukuk rolled on the ground in pain, and
with them there were divers others, also Moosu.  I thrust aside
those that cluttered the way of my feet, and put the mouth of the
bottle to Moosu's lips.  And straightway he became well and ceased
his howling.  Whereat there was a great clamour for the bottle from
the others so stricken.  But I made harangue, and ere they tasted
and were made well I had mulcted Tummasook of his copper kettle and
kerosene can, and the woman Ipsukuk of her sugar and molasses, and
the other sick ones of goodly measures of flour.  The shaman
glowered wickedly at the people around my knees, though he poorly
concealed the wonder that lay beneath.  But I held my head high,
and Moosu groaned beneath the loot as he followed my heels to the
shack.
"There I set to work.  In Tummasook's copper kettle I mixed three
quarts of wheat flour with five of molasses, and to this I added of
water twenty quarts.  Then I placed the kettle near the lamp, that
it might sour in the warmth and grow strong.  Moosu understood, and
said my wisdom passed understanding and was greater than Solomon's,
who he had heard was a wise man of old time.  The kerosene can I
set over the lamp, and to its nose I affixed a snout, and into the
snout the bone that was like a gooseneck.  I sent Moosu without to
pound ice, while I connected the barrel of his gun with the
gooseneck, and midway on the barrel I piled the ice he had pounded.
And at the far end of the gun-barrel, beyond the pan of ice, I
placed a small iron pot.  When the brew was strong enough (and it
was two days ere it could stand on its own legs), I filled the
kerosene can with it, and lighted the wicks I had braided.
