There was mild protest in his pale blue eyes, and withal a timid
frankness and manliness that quite won me to him.
"Thank you, Mr. Johnson," I corrected, and reached out my hand for his.
He hesitated, awkward and bashful, shifted his weight from one leg to the
other, then blunderingly gripped my hand in a hearty shake.
"Have you any dry clothes I may put on?" I asked the cook.
"Yes, sir," he answered, with cheerful alacrity.  "I'll run down an' tyke
a look over my kit, if you've no objections, sir, to wearin' my things."
He dived out of the galley door, or glided rather, with a swiftness and
smoothness of gait that struck me as being not so much cat-like as oily.
In fact, this oiliness, or greasiness, as I was later to learn, was
probably the most salient expression of his personality.
"And where am I?" I asked Johnson, whom I took, and rightly, to be one of
the sailors.  "What vessel is this, and where is she bound?"
"Off the Farallones, heading about sou-west," he answered, slowly and
methodically, as though groping for his best English, and rigidly
observing the order of my queries.  "The schooner _Ghost_, bound
seal-hunting to Japan."
"And who is the captain?  I must see him as soon as I am dressed."
Johnson looked puzzled and embarrassed.  He hesitated while he groped in
his vocabulary and framed a complete answer.  "The cap'n is Wolf Larsen,
or so men call him.  I never heard his other name.  But you better speak
soft with him.  He is mad this morning.  The mate--"
But he did not finish.  The cook had glided in.
"Better sling yer 'ook out of 'ere, Yonson," he said.  "The old man'll be
wantin' yer on deck, an' this ayn't no d'y to fall foul of 'im."
Johnson turned obediently to the door, at the same time, over the cook's
shoulder, favouring me with an amazingly solemn and portentous wink as
though to emphasize his interrupted remark and the need for me to be
soft-spoken with the captain.
Hanging over the cook's arm was a loose and crumpled array of
evil-looking and sour-smelling garments.
"They was put aw'y wet, sir," he vouchsafed explanation.  "But you'll
'ave to make them do till I dry yours out by the fire."
Clinging to the woodwork, staggering with the roll of the ship, and aided
by the cook, I managed to slip into a rough woollen undershirt.  On the
instant my flesh was creeping and crawling from the harsh contact.  He
noticed my involuntary twitching and grimacing, and smirked:
"I only 'ope yer don't ever 'ave to get used to such as that in this
life, 'cos you've got a bloomin' soft skin, that you 'ave, more like a
lydy's than any I know of.  I was bloomin' well sure you was a gentleman
as soon as I set eyes on yer."
I had taken a dislike to him at first, and as he helped to dress me this
dislike increased.  There was something repulsive about his touch.  I
shrank from his hand; my flesh revolted.  And between this and the smells
arising from various pots boiling and bubbling on the galley fire, I was
in haste to get out into the fresh air.  Further, there was the need of
seeing the captain about what arrangements could be made for getting me
ashore.
