Both men had led forlorn hopes in their time--led with a curse or a
jest on their tongues, and in their souls an unswerving faith in the
God of Chance. But that merciful deity had been shut out from the
present deal. They studied the face of Malemute Kid, but they studied
as one might the Sphinx. As the quiet minutes passed, a feeling that
speech was incumbent on them began to grow. At last the howl of a
wolf-dog cracked the silence from the direction of Forty-Mile. The
weird sound swelled with all the pathos of a breaking heart, then died
away in a long-drawn sob.
'Well I be danged!' Bettles turned up the collar of his mackinaw jacket
and stared about him helplessly.
'It's a gloryus game yer runnin', Kid,' cried Lon McFane. 'All the
percentage of the house an' niver a bit to the man that's buckin'. The
Devil himself'd niver tackle such a cinch--and damned if I do.' There
were chuckles, throttled in gurgling throats, and winks brushed away
with the frost which rimed the eyelashes, as the men climbed the
ice-notched bank and started across the street to the Post. But the
long howl had drawn nearer, invested with a new note of menace. A woman
screamed round the corner. There was a cry of, 'Here he comes!' Then an
Indian boy, at the head of half a dozen frightened dogs, racing with
death, dashed into the crowd. And behind came Yellow Fang, a bristle of
hair and a flash of gray. Everybody but the Yankee fled.
The Indian boy had tripped and fallen. Bettles stopped long enough to
grip him by the slack of his furs, then headed for a pile of cordwood
already occupied by a number of his comrades. Yellow Fang, doubling
after one of the dogs, came leaping back. The fleeing animal, free of
the rabies, but crazed with fright, whipped Bettles off his feet and
flashed on up the street. Malemute Kid took a flying shot at Yellow
Fang. The mad dog whirled a half airspring, came down on his back,
then, with a single leap, covered half the distance between himself and
Bettles.
But the fatal spring was intercepted. Lon McFane leaped from the
woodpile, countering him in midair. Over they rolled, Lon holding him
by the throat at arm's length, blinking under the fetid slaver which
sprayed his face. Then Bettles, revolver in hand and coolly waiting a
chance, settled the combat.
''Twas a square game, Kid,' Lon remarked, rising to his feet and
shaking the snow from out his sleeves; 'with a fair percentage to
meself that bucked it.' That night, while Lon McFane sought the
forgiving arms of the Church in the direction of Father Roubeau's
cabin, Malemute Kid talked long to little purpose.
'But would you,' persisted Mackenzie, 'supposing they had fought?'
'Have I ever broken my word?' 'No; but that isn't the point. Answer the
question. Would you?' Malemute Kid straightened up. 'Scruff, I've been
asking myself that question ever since, and--'
