"Help me out, Pierre.  I'm tired all over from the boat.  You might have
made it softer, you know."
From a nest of furs amidships, Karen Sayther rose to her full height of
slender fairness.  But if she looked lily-frail in her elemental
environment, she was belied by the grip she put upon Pierre's hand, by
the knotting of her woman's biceps as it took the weight of her body, by
the splendid effort of her limbs as they held her out from the
perpendicular bank while she made the ascent.  Though shapely flesh
clothed delicate frame, her body was a seat of strength.
Still, for all the careless ease with which she had made the landing,
there was a warmer color than usual to her face, and a perceptibly extra
beat to her heart.  But then, also, it was with a certain reverent
curiousness that she approached the cabin, while the Hush on her cheek
showed a yet riper mellowness.
"Look, see!"  Pierre pointed to the scattered chips by the woodpile.  "Him
fresh--two, t'ree day, no more."
Mrs. Sayther nodded.  She tried to peer through the small window, but it
was made of greased parchment which admitted light while it blocked
vision.  Failing this, she went round to the door, half lifted the rude
latch to enter, but changed her mind and let it fall back into place.
Then she suddenly dropped on one knee and kissed the rough-hewn
threshold.  If Pierre Fontaine saw, he gave no sign, and the memory in
the time to come was never shared.  But the next instant, one of the
boatmen, placidly lighting his pipe, was startled by an unwonted
harshness in his captain's voice.
"Hey!  You!  Le Goire! You mak'm soft more better," Pierre commanded.
"Plenty bearskin; plenty blanket.  Dam!"
But the nest was soon after disrupted, and the major portion tossed up to
the crest of the shore, where Mrs. Sayther lay down to wait in comfort.
Reclining on her side, she looked out and over the wide-stretching Yukon.
Above the mountains which lay beyond the further shore, the sky was murky
with the smoke of unseen forest fires, and through this the afternoon sun
broke feebly, throwing a vague radiance to earth, and unreal shadows.  To
the sky-line of the four quarters--spruce-shrouded islands, dark waters,
and ice-scarred rocky ridges--stretched the immaculate wilderness.  No
sign of human existence broke the solitude; no sound the stillness.  The
land seemed bound under the unreality of the unknown, wrapped in the
brooding mystery of great spaces.
Perhaps it was this which made Mrs. Sayther nervous; for she changed her
position constantly, now to look up the river, now down, or to scan the
gloomy shores for the half-hidden mouths of back channels.  After an hour
or so the boatmen were sent ashore to pitch camp for the night, but
Pierre remained with his mistress to watch.
"Ah! him come thees tam," he whispered, after a long silence, his gaze
bent up the river to the head of the island.
