"And the second one:  'And I did as thou biddest, O master,
whispering shrewd words in thirsty ears, and raising memories of
the things that were of old time.  The woman Ipsukuk waileth her
poverty and the wealth that no longer is hers.  And Tummasook
thinketh himself once again chief, and the people are hungry and
rage up and down.'
"And a third one:  'And Neewak hath overthrown the altars of Moosu,
and maketh incantation before the time-honoured and ancient gods.
And all the people remember the wealth that ran down their throats,
and which they possess no more.  And first, Esanetuk, who be SICK
TUMTUM, fought with Kluktu, and there was much noise.  And next,
being daughters of the one mother, did they fight with Tukeliketa.
And after that did they three fall upon Moosu, like wind-squalls,
from every hand, till he ran forth from the igloo, and the people
mocked him.  For a man who cannot command his womankind is a fool.'
"Then came Angeit:  'Great trouble hath befallen Moosu, O master,
for I have whispered to advantage, till the people came to Moosu,
saying they were hungry and demanding the fulfilment of prophecy.
And there was a loud shout of "Itlwillie! Itlwillie!"  (Meat.)  So
he cried peace to his womenfolk, who were overwrought with anger
and with hooch, and led the tribe even to thy meat caches.  And he
bade the men open them and be fed.  And lo, the caches were empty.
There was no meat.  They stood without sound, the people being
frightened, and in the silence I lifted my voice.  "O Moosu, where
is the meat?  That there was meat we know.  Did we not hunt it and
drag it in from the hunt?  And it were a lie to say one man hath
eaten it; yet have we seen nor hide nor hair.  Where is the meat, O
Moosu?  Thou hast the ear of God.  Where is the meat?"
"'And the people cried, "Thou hast the ear of God.  Where is the
meat?"  And they put their heads together and were afraid.  Then I
went among them, speaking fearsomely of the unknown things, of the
dead that come and go like shadows and do evil deeds, till they
cried aloud in terror and gathered all together, like little
children afraid of the dark.  Neewak made harangue, laying this
evil that had come upon them at the door of Moosu.  When he had
done, there was a furious commotion, and they took spears in their
hands, and tusks of walrus, and clubs, and stones from the beach.
But Moosu ran away home, and because he had not drunken of hooch
they could not catch him, and fell one over another and made haste
slowly.  Even now they do howl without his igloo, and his woman-
folk within, and what of the noise, he cannot make himself heard.'
"'O Angeit, thou hast done well,' I commanded.  'Go now, taking
this empty sled and the lean dogs, and ride fast to the igloo of
Moosu; and before the people, who are drunken, are aware, throw him
quick upon the sled and bring him to me.'
