There was no mistaking his innuendo, and Saxon felt her cheeks flaming.
"Get onto yourself, Bert," Billy reproved.
"Shut up!" Mary added the weight of her indignation. "You're
awfully raw, Bert Wanhope, an' I won't have anything more to do with
you--there!"
She withdrew her arms and shoved him away, only to receive him
forgivingly half a dozen seconds afterward.
 "Come on, the four of us," Bert went on irrepressibly. "The
night's young. Let's make a time of it--Pabst's Cafe first, and then
some. What you say, Bill? What you say, Saxon? Mary's game."
Saxon waited and wondered, half sick with apprehension of this man
beside her whom she had known so short a time.
"Nope," he said slowly. "I gotta get up to a hard day's work to-morrow,
and I guess the girls has got to, too."
Saxon forgave him his tone-deafness. Here was the kind of man she always
had known existed. It was for some such man that she had waited. She was
twenty-two, and her first marriage offer had come when she was sixteen.
The last had occurred only the month before, from the foreman of the
washing-room, and he had been good and kind, but not young. But this
one beside her--he was strong and kind and good, and YOUNG. She was too
young herself not to desire youth. There would have been rest from fancy
starch with the foreman, but there would have been no warmth. But this
man beside her.... She caught herself on the verge involuntarily of
pressing his hand that held hers.
"No, Bert, don't tease; he's right," Mary was saying. "We've got to get
some sleep. It's fancy starch to-morrow, and all day on our feet."
It came to Saxon with a chill pang that she was surely older than Billy.
She stole glances at the smoothness of his face, and the essential
boyishness of him, so much desired, shocked her. Of course he would
marry some girl years younger than himself, than herself. How old was
he? Could it be that he was too young for her? As he seemed to grow
inaccessible, she was drawn toward him more compellingly. He was so
strong, so gentle. She lived over the events of the day. There was no
flaw there. He had considered her and Mary, always. And he had torn
the program up and danced only with her. Surely he had liked her, or he
would not have done it.
She slightly moved her hand in his and felt the harsh contact of his
teamster callouses. The sensation was exquisite. He, too, moved his
hand, to accommodate the shift of hers, and she waited fearfully. She
did not want him to prove like other men, and she could have hated him
had he dared to take advantage of that slight movement of her fingers
and put his arm around her. He did not, and she flamed toward him.
There was fineness in him. He was neither rattle-brained, like Bert, nor
coarse like other men she had encountered. For she had had experiences,
not nice, and she had been made to suffer by the lack of what was termed
chivalry, though she, in turn, lacked that word to describe what she
divined and desired.
