“It is a head like yours,” he said, “but it is poorly cured.”
Bassett had pricked up his ears at the suggestion that it was a white
man’s head; for he had long since come to accept that these
jungle-dwellers, in the midmost centre of the great island, had never had
intercourse with white men.  Certainly he had found them without the
almost universal beche-de-mer English of the west South Pacific.  Nor had
they knowledge of tobacco, nor of gunpowder.  Their few precious knives,
made from lengths of hoop-iron, and their few and more precious tomahawks
from cheap trade hatchets, he had surmised they had captured in war from
the bushmen of the jungle beyond the grass lands, and that they, in turn,
had similarly gained them from the salt-water men who fringed the coral
beaches of the shore and had contact with the occasional white men.
“The folk in the out beyond do not know how to cure heads,” old Ngurn
explained, as he drew forth from the filthy matting and placed in
Bassett’s hands an indubitable white man’s head.
Ancient it was beyond question; white it was as the blond hair attested.
He could have sworn it once belonged to an Englishman, and to an
Englishman of long before by token of the heavy gold circlets still
threaded in the withered ear-lobes.
“Now your head . . . ” the devil-devil doctor began on his favourite
topic.
“I’ll tell you what,” Bassett interrupted, struck by a new idea.  “When I
die I’ll let you have my head to cure, if, first, you take me to look
upon the Red One.”
“I will have your head anyway when you are dead,” Ngurn rejected the
proposition.  He added, with the brutal frankness of the savage:
“Besides, you have not long to live.  You are almost a dead man now.  You
will grow less strong.  In not many months I shall have you here turning
and turning in the smoke.  It is pleasant, through the long afternoons,
to turn the head of one you have known as well as I know you.  And I
shall talk to you and tell you the many secrets you want to know.  Which
will not matter, for you will be dead.”
“Ngurn,” Bassett threatened in sudden anger.  “You know the Baby Thunder
in the Iron that is mine.”  (This was in reference to his all-potent and
all-awful shotgun.)  “I can kill you any time, and then you will not get
my head.”
“Just the same, will Vngngn, or some one else of my folk get it,” Ngurn
complacently assured him.  “And just the same will it in the end turn
devil-devil house in the smoke.  The quicker you slay me with your Baby
Thunder, the quicker will your head turn in the smoke.”
And Bassett knew he was beaten in the discussion.
What was the Red One?—Bassett asked himself a thousand times in the
succeeding week, while he seemed to grow stronger.  What was the source
of the wonderful sound?  What was this Sun Singer, this Star-Born One,
this mysterious deity, as bestial-conducted as the black and kinky-headed
and monkey-like human beasts who worshipped it, and whose silver-sweet,
bull-mouthed singing and commanding he had heard at the taboo distance
for so long?
