"And I was well pleased, for I thought it good that church and
state go hand in hand, and I had certain plans of my own concerning
the state.  Events were shaping as I had foreseen.  Good temper and
smiling faces had vanished from the village.  The people were
morose and sullen.  There were quarrels and fighting, and things
were in an uproar night and day.  Moosu's cards were duplicated and
the hunters fell to gambling among themselves.  Tummasook beat his
wife horribly, and his mother's brother objected and smote him with
a tusk of walrus till he cried aloud in the night and was shamed
before the people.  Also, amid such diversions no hunting was done,
and famine fell upon the land.  The nights were long and dark, and
without meat no hooch could be bought; so they murmured against the
chief.  This I had played for, and when they were well and hungry,
I summoned the whole village, made a great harangue, posed as
patriarch, and fed the famishing.  Moosu made harangue likewise,
and because of this and the thing I had done I was made chief.
Moosu, who had the ear of God and decreed his judgments, anointed
me with whale blubber, and right blubberly he did it, not
understanding the ceremony.  And between us we interpreted to the
people the new theory of the divine right of kings.  There was
hooch galore, and meat and feastings, and they took kindly to the
new order.
"So you see, O man, I have sat in the high places, and worn the
purple, and ruled populations.  And I might yet be a king had the
tobacco held out, or had Moosu been more fool and less knave.  For
he cast eyes upon Esanetuk, eldest daughter to Tummasook, and I
objected.
"'O brother,' he explained, 'thou hast seen fit to speak of
introducing new institutions amongst this people, and I have
listened to thy words and gained wisdom thereby.  Thou rulest by
the God-given right, and by the God-given right I marry.'
"I noted that he 'brothered' me, and was angry and put my foot
down.  But he fell back upon the people and made incantations for
three days, in which all hands joined; and then, speaking with the
voice of God, he decreed polygamy by divine fiat.  But he was
shrewd, for he limited the number of wives by a property
qualification, and because of which he, above all men, was favoured
by his wealth.  Nor could I fail to admire, though it was plain
that power had turned his head, and he would not be satisfied till
all the power and all the wealth rested in his own hands.  So he
became swollen with pride, forgot it was I that had placed him
there, and made preparations to destroy me.
"But it was interesting, for the beggar was working out in his own
way an evolution of primitive society.  Now I, by virtue of the
hooch monopoly, drew a revenue in which I no longer permitted him
to share.  So he meditated for a while and evolved a system of
ecclesiastical taxation.  He laid tithes upon the people, harangued
about fat firstlings and such things, and twisted whatever twisted
texts he had ever heard to serve his purpose.  Even this I bore in
silence, but when he instituted what may be likened to a graduated
income-tax, I rebelled, and blindly, for this was what he worked
for.  Thereat, he appealed to the people, and they, envious of my
great wealth and well taxed themselves, upheld him.  'Why should we
pay,' they asked, 'and not you?  Does not the voice of God speak
through the lips of Moosu, the shaman?'  So I yielded.  But at the
same time I raised the price of hooch, and lo, he was not a whit
behind me in raising my taxes.
