Young Dick was precocious. Lucky Richard was a democrat. Result: Young
Dick learned in a year from a private teacher what would have required
three years in the grammar school, and used all of the saved years in
playing in the open air. Also, result of precocity of son and democracy
of father, Young Dick was sent to grammar school for the last year in
order to learn shoulder-rubbing democracy with the sons and daughters
of workmen, tradesmen, saloon-keepers and politicians.
In class recitation or spelling match his father's millions did not aid
him in competing with Patsy Halloran, the mathematical prodigy whose
father was a hod-carrier, nor with Mona Sanguinetti who was a wizard at
spelling and whose widowed mother ran a vegetable store. Nor were his
father's millions and the Nob Hill palace of the slightest assistance
to Young Dick when he peeled his jacket and, bareknuckled, without
rounds, licking or being licked, milled it to a finish with Jimmy
Botts, Jean Choyinsky, and the rest of the lads that went out over the
world to glory and cash a few years later, a generation of
prizefighters that only San Francisco, raw and virile and yeasty and
young, could have produced.
The wisest thing Lucky Richard did for his boy was to give him this
democratic tutelage. In his secret heart, Young Dick never forgot that
he lived in a palace of many servants and that his father was a man of
power and honor. On the other hand, Young Dick learned two-legged,
two-fisted democracy. He learned it when Mona Sanguinetti spelled him
down in class. He learned it when Berney Miller out-dodged and out-ran
him when running across in Black Man.
And when Tim Hagan, with straight left for the hundredth time to
bleeding nose and mangled mouth, and with ever reiterant right hook to
stomach, had him dazed and reeling, the breath whistling and sobbing
through his lacerated lips--was no time for succor from palaces and
bank accounts. On his two legs, with his two fists, it was either he or
Tim. And it was right there, in sweat and blood and iron of soul, that
Young Dick learned how not to lose a losing fight. It had been uphill
from the first blow, but he stuck it out until in the end it was agreed
that neither could best the other, although this agreement was not
reached until they had first lain on the ground in nausea and
exhaustion and with streaming eyes wept their rage and defiance at each
other. After that, they became chums and between them ruled the
schoolyard.
Lucky Richard died the same month Young Dick emerged from grammar
school. Young Dick was thirteen years old, with twenty million dollars,
and without a relative in the world to trouble him. He was the master
of a palace of servants, a steam yacht, stables, and, as well, of a
summer palace down the Peninsula in the nabob colony at Menlo. One
thing, only, was he burdened with: guardians.
