And then holding Balatta by the hand and leading her onward, he came to
it—a tremendous pit, obviously artificial, in the heart of the plateau.
Old history, the South Seas Sailing Directions, scores of remembered data
and connotations swift and furious, surged through his brain.  It was
Mendana who had discovered the islands and named them Solomon’s,
believing that he had found that monarch’s fabled mines.  They had
laughed at the old navigator’s child-like credulity; and yet here stood
himself, Bassett, on the rim of an excavation for all the world like the
diamond pits of South Africa.
But no diamond this that he gazed down upon.  Rather was it a pearl, with
the depth of iridescence of a pearl; but of a size all pearls of earth
and time, welded into one, could not have totalled; and of a colour
undreamed of in any pearl, or of anything else, for that matter, for it
was the colour of the Red One.  And the Red One himself Bassett knew it
to be on the instant.  A perfect sphere, full two hundred feet in
diameter, the top of it was a hundred feet below the level of the rim.
He likened the colour quality of it to lacquer.  Indeed, he took it to be
some sort of lacquer, applied by man, but a lacquer too marvellously
clever to have been manufactured by the bush-folk.  Brighter than bright
cherry-red, its richness of colour was as if it were red builded upon
red.  It glowed and iridesced in the sunlight as if gleaming up from
underlay under underlay of red.
In vain Balatta strove to dissuade him from descending.  She threw
herself in the dirt; but, when he continued down the trail that spiralled
the pit-wall, she followed, cringing and whimpering her terror.  That the
red sphere had been dug out as a precious thing, was patent.  Considering
the paucity of members of the federated twelve villages and their
primitive tools and methods, Bassett knew that the toil of a myriad
generations could scarcely have made that enormous excavation.
He found the pit bottom carpeted with human bones, among which, battered
and defaced, lay village gods of wood and stone.  Some, covered with
obscene totemic figures and designs, were carved from solid tree trunks
forty or fifty feet in length.  He noted the absence of the shark and
turtle gods, so common among the shore villages, and was amazed at the
constant recurrence of the helmet motive.  What did these jungle savages
of the dark heart of Guadalcanal know of helmets?  Had Mendana’s
men-at-arms worn helmets and penetrated here centuries before?  And if
not, then whence had the bush-folk caught the motive?
Advancing over the litter of gods and bones, Balatta whimpering at his
heels, Bassett entered the shadow of the Red One and passed on under its
gigantic overhang until he touched it with his finger-tips.  No lacquer
that.  Nor was the surface smooth as it should have been in the case of
lacquer.  On the contrary, it was corrugated and pitted, with here and
there patches that showed signs of heat and fusing.  Also, the substance
of it was metal, though unlike any metal, or combination of metals, he
had ever known.  As for the colour itself, he decided it to be no
application.  It was the intrinsic colour of the metal itself.
