"They are afraid to fight cows," said John Harned.
"Yes," said Luis Cervallos, "they are afraid to fight cows. There would
be no sport in killing toreadors."
"There would be some sport," said John Harned, "if a toreador were
killed once in a while. When I become an old man, and mayhap a cripple,
and should I need to make a living and be unable to do hard work,
then would I become a bull-fighter. It is a light vocation for elderly
gentlemen and pensioners."
"But see!" said Maria Valenzuela, as the bull charged bravely and the
capador eluded it with a fling of his cape. "It requires skill so to
avoid the beast."
"True," said John Harned. "But believe me, it requires a thousand times
more skill to avoid the many and quick punches of a prize-fighter who
keeps his eyes open and strikes with intelligence. Furthermore, this
bull does not want to fight. Behold, he runs away."
It was not a good bull, for again it ran around the ring, seeking to
find a way out.
"Yet these bulls are sometimes the most dangerous," said Luis Cervallos.
"It can never be known what they will do next. They are wise. They are
half cow. The bull-fighters never like them.--See! He has turned!"
Once again, baffled and made angry by the walls of the ring that would
not let him out, the bull was attacking his enemies valiantly.
"His tongue is hanging out," said John Harned. "First, they fill him
with water. Then they tire him out, one man and then another, persuading
him to exhaust himself by fighting wind. While some tire him, others
rest. But the bull they never let rest. Afterward, when he is quite
tired and no longer quick, the matador sticks the sword into him."
The time had now come for the banderillos. Three times one of the
fighters endeavored to place the darts, and three times did he fail.
He but stung the bull and maddened it. The banderillos must go in, you
know, two at a time, into the shoulders, on each side the backbone and
close to it. If but one be placed, it is a failure. The crowd hissed and
called for Ordonez. And then Ordonez did a great thing. Four times
he stood forth, and four times, at the first attempt, he stuck in the
banderillos, so that eight of them, well placed, stood out of the back
of the bull at one time. The crowd went mad, and a rain of hats and
money fell on the sand of the ring.
And just then the bull charged unexpectedly one of the capadors. The man
slipped and lost his head. The bull caught him--fortunately, between his
wide horns. And while the audience watched, breathless and silent, John
Harned stood up and yelled with gladness. Alone, in that hush of all of
us, John Harned yelled. And he yelled for the bull. As you see yourself,
John Harned wanted the man killed. His was a brutal heart. This bad
conduct made those angry that sat in the box of General Salazar, and
they cried out against John Harned. And Urcisino Castillo told him to
his face that he was a dog of a Gringo and other things. Only it was
in Spanish, and John Harned did not understand. He stood and yelled,
perhaps for the time of ten seconds, when the bull was enticed into
charging the other capadors and the man arose unhurt.
