The beauty of the sight held him as well. The roadway had become a
flowing ribbon of silk, gemmed with yellow cat-like eyes that floated
past wary and curious in their regard for him and his nervous horse.
Two Basque herders brought up the rear. They were short, broad, swarthy
men, black-eyed, vivid-faced, contemplative and philosophic of
expression. They pulled off their hats and ducked their heads to him.
Forrest lifted his right hand, the quirt dangling from wrist, the
straight forefinger touching the rim of his Baden Powell in
semi-military salute.
The mare, prancing and whirling again, he held her with a touch of rein
and threat of spur, and gazed after the four-footed silk that filled
the road with shimmering white. He knew the significance of their
presence. The time for kidding was approaching and they were being
brought down from their brush-pastures to the brood-pens and shelters
for jealous care and generous feed through the period of increase. And
as he gazed, in his mind, comparing, was a vision of all the best of
Turkish and South African mohair he had ever seen, and his flock bore
the comparison well. It looked good. It looked very good.
He rode on. From all about arose the clacking whir of manure-spreaders.
In the distance, on the low, easy-sloping hills, he saw team after
team, and many teams, three to a team abreast, what he knew were his
Shire mares, drawing the plows back and forth across, contour-plowing,
turning the green sod of the hillsides to the rich dark brown of
humus-filled earth so organic and friable that it would almost melt by
gravity into fine-particled seed-bed. That was for the corn--and
sorghum-planting for his silos. Other hill-slopes, in the due course of
his rotation, were knee-high in barley; and still other slopes were
showing the good green of burr clover and Canada pea.
Everywhere about him, large fields and small were arranged in a system
of accessibility and workability that would have warmed the heart of
the most meticulous efficiency-expert. Every fence was hog-tight and
bull-proof, and no weeds grew in the shelters of the fences. Many of
the level fields were in alfalfa. Others, following the rotations, bore
crops planted the previous fall, or were in preparation for the
spring-planting. Still others, close to the brood barns and pens, were
being grazed by rotund Shropshire and French-Merino ewes, or were being
hogged off by white Gargantuan brood-sows that brought a flash of
pleasure in his eyes as he rode past and gazed.
He rode through what was almost a village, save that there were neither
shops nor hotels. The houses were bungalows, substantial, pleasing to
the eye, each set in the midst of gardens where stouter blooms,
including roses, were out and smiling at the threat of late frost.
Children were already astir, laughing and playing among the flowers or
being called in to breakfast by their mothers.
Beyond, beginning at a half-mile distant to circle the Big House, he
passed a row of shops. He paused at the first and glanced in. One smith
was working at a forge. A second smith, a shoe fresh-nailed on the
fore-foot of an elderly Shire mare that would disturb the scales at
eighteen hundred weight, was rasping down the outer wall of the hoof to
smooth with the toe of the shoe. Forrest saw, saluted, rode on, and, a
hundred feet away, paused and scribbled a memorandum in the notebook he
drew from his hip-pocket.
