At this moment, as he opened his mouth to speak, puff after puff struck
the schooner and pressed her side under.  The wind shrieked a wild song
through the rigging.  Some of the hunters glanced anxiously aloft.  The
lee rail, where the dead man lay, was buried in the sea, and as the
schooner lifted and righted the water swept across the deck wetting us
above our shoe-tops.  A shower of rain drove down upon us, each drop
stinging like a hailstone.  As it passed, Wolf Larsen began to speak, the
bare-headed men swaying in unison, to the heave and lunge of the deck.
"I only remember one part of the service," he said, "and that is, 'And
the body shall be cast into the sea.'  So cast it in."
He ceased speaking.  The men holding the hatch-cover seemed perplexed,
puzzled no doubt by the briefness of the ceremony.  He burst upon them in
a fury.
"Lift up that end there, damn you!  What the hell's the matter with you?"
They elevated the end of the hatch-cover with pitiful haste, and, like a
dog flung overside, the dead man slid feet first into the sea.  The coal
at his feet dragged him down.  He was gone.
"Johansen," Wolf Larsen said briskly to the new mate, "keep all hands on
deck now they're here.  Get in the topsails and jibs and make a good job
of it.  We're in for a sou'-easter.  Better reef the jib and mainsail
too, while you're about it."
In a moment the decks were in commotion, Johansen bellowing orders and
the men pulling or letting go ropes of various sorts--all naturally
confusing to a landsman such as myself.  But it was the heartlessness of
it that especially struck me.  The dead man was an episode that was past,
an incident that was dropped, in a canvas covering with a sack of coal,
while the ship sped along and her work went on.  Nobody had been
affected.  The hunters were laughing at a fresh story of Smoke's; the men
pulling and hauling, and two of them climbing aloft; Wolf Larsen was
studying the clouding sky to windward; and the dead man, dying obscenely,
buried sordidly, and sinking down, down--
Then it was that the cruelty of the sea, its relentlessness and
awfulness, rushed upon me.  Life had become cheap and tawdry, a beastly
and inarticulate thing, a soulless stirring of the ooze and slime.  I
held on to the weather rail, close by the shrouds, and gazed out across
the desolate foaming waves to the low-lying fog-banks that hid San
Francisco and the California coast.  Rain-squalls were driving in
between, and I could scarcely see the fog.  And this strange vessel, with
its terrible men, pressed under by wind and sea and ever leaping up and
out, was heading away into the south-west, into the great and lonely
Pacific expanse.
CHAPTER IV
What happened to me next on the sealing-schooner _Ghost_, as I strove to
fit into my new environment, are matters of humiliation and pain.  The
cook, who was called "the doctor" by the crew, "Tommy" by the hunters,
and "Cooky" by Wolf Larsen, was a changed person.  The difference worked
in my status brought about a corresponding difference in treatment from
him.  Servile and fawning as he had been before, he was now as
domineering and bellicose.  In truth, I was no longer the fine gentleman
with a skin soft as a "lydy's," but only an ordinary and very worthless
cabin-boy.
