So far as Timothy McManus was concerned, the dapper young man was
destiny; for as Tim passed him, the young man, with utmost deliberation,
thrust his cane between Tim's flying legs. Tim sailed through the air in
a headlong pitch, struck spread-eagled on his face, and plowed along in
a cloud of dust.
There was an instant of vast and gasping silence. The young man, too,
seemed petrified by the ghastliness of his deed. It took an appreciable
interval of time for him, as well as for the onlookers, to realize what
he had done. They recovered first, and from a thousand throats the wild
Irish yell went up. Red-head won the race without a cheer. The storm
center had shifted to the young man with the cane. After the yell, he
had one moment of indecision; then he turned and darted up the track.
"Go it, sport!" Bert cheered, waving his hat in the air. "You're the
goods for me! Who'd a-thought it? Who'd a-thought it? Say!--wouldn't it,
now? Just wouldn't it?"
"Phew! He's a streak himself," Billy admired. "But what did he do it
for? He's no bricklayer."
Like a frightened rabbit, the mad roar at his heels, the young man tore
up the track to an open space on the hillside, up which he clawed
and disappeared among the trees. Behind him toiled a hundred vengeful
runners.
"It's too bad he's missing the rest of it," Billy said. "Look at 'em
goin' to it."
Bert was beside himself. He leaped up and down and cried continuously.
"Look at 'em! Look at 'em! Look at 'em!"
The Oakland faction was outraged. Twice had its favorite runner been
jobbed out of the race. This last was only another vile trick of the
Frisco faction. So Oakland doubled its brawny fists and swung into San
Francisco for blood. And San Francisco, consciously innocent, was no
less willing to join issues. To be charged with such a crime was no less
monstrous than the crime itself. Besides, for too many tedious hours
had the Irish heroically suppressed themselves. Five thousands of them
exploded into joyous battle. The women joined with them. The whole
amphitheater was filled with the conflict. There were rallies, retreats,
charges, and counter-charges. Weaker groups were forced fighting up
the hillsides. Other groups, bested, fled among the trees to carry
on guerrilla warfare, emerging in sudden dashes to overwhelm isolated
enemies. Half a dozen special policemen, hired by the Weasel Park
management, received an impartial trouncing from both sides.
"Nobody's the friend of a policeman," Bert chortled, dabbing his
handkerchief to his injured ear, which still bled.
The bushes crackled behind him, and he sprang aside to let the locked
forms of two men go by, rolling over and over down the hill, each
striking when uppermost, and followed by a screaming woman who rained
blows on the one who was patently not of her clan.
The judges, in the second story of the stand, valiantly withstood
a fierce assault until the frail structure toppled to the ground in
splinters.
