As the train slows down for a stop, half a dozen platforms from where
I had decked her I come down. No one is on the platform. When the
train comes to a standstill, I slip off to the ground. Ahead, and
between me and the engine, are two moving lanterns. The shacks are
looking for me on the roofs of the cars. I note that the car beside
which I am standing is a "four-wheeler"--by which is meant that it has
only four wheels to each truck. (When you go underneath on the rods,
be sure to avoid the "six-wheelers,"--they lead to disasters.)
I duck under the train and make for the rods, and I can tell you I am
mighty glad that the train is standing still. It is the first time I
have ever gone underneath on the Canadian Pacific, and the internal
arrangements are new to me. I try to crawl over the top of the truck,
between the truck and the bottom of the car. But the space is not
large enough for me to squeeze through. This is new to me. Down in the
United States I am accustomed to going underneath on rapidly moving
trains, seizing a gunnel and swinging my feet under to the brake-beam,
and from there crawling over the top of the truck and down inside the
truck to a seat on the cross-rod.
Feeling with my hands in the darkness, I learn that there is room
between the brake-beam and the ground. It is a tight squeeze. I have
to lie flat and worm my way through. Once inside the truck, I take my
seat on the rod and wonder what the shacks are thinking has become of
me. The train gets under way. They have given me up at last.
But have they? At the very next stop, I see a lantern thrust under
the next truck to mine at the other end of the car. They are searching
the rods for me. I must make my get-away pretty lively. I crawl on my
stomach under the brake-beam. They see me and run for me, but I crawl
on hands and knees across the rail on the opposite side and gain my
feet. Then away I go for the head of the train. I run past the engine
and hide in the sheltering darkness. It is the same old situation. I
am ahead of the train, and the train must go past me.
The train pulls out. There is a lantern on the first blind. I lie low,
and see the peering shack go by. But there is also a lantern on the
second blind. That shack spots me and calls to the shack who has gone
past on the first blind. Both jump off. Never mind, I'll take the
third blind and deck her. But heavens, there is a lantern on the third
blind, too. It is the conductor. I let it go by. At any rate I have
now the full train-crew in front of me. I turn and run back in the
opposite direction to what the train is going. I look over my
shoulder. All three lanterns are on the ground and wobbling along in
pursuit. I sprint. Half the train has gone by, and it is going quite
fast, when I spring aboard. I know that the two shacks and the
conductor will arrive like ravening wolves in about two seconds. I
spring upon the wheel of the hand-brake, get my hands on the curved
ends of the roofs, and muscle myself up to the decks; while my
disappointed pursuers, clustering on the platform beneath like dogs
that have treed a cat, howl curses up at me and say unsocial things
about my ancestors.
