Behind Mr. Mellaire slouched a self-conscious, embarrassed individual,
with the face of a stupid boy and the body of a giant.  His feet were
even larger than Mr. Pike's, but the hands--I shot a quick glance to
see--were not so large as Mr. Pike's.
As they passed I looked inquiry to Wada.
"He carpenter.  He sat second table.  His name Sam Lavroff.  He come from
New York on ship.  Steward say he very young for carpenter, maybe twenty-
two, three years old."
As I approached the open port over my desk I again heard the swish and
gurgle of water and again realized that we were under way.  So steady and
noiseless was our progress, that, say seated at table, it never entered
one's head that we were moving or were anywhere save on the solid land. I
had been used to steamers all my life, and it was difficult immediately
to adjust myself to the absence of the propeller-thrust vibration.
"Well, what do you think?" I asked Wada, who, like myself, had never made
a sailing-ship voyage.
He smiled politely.
"Very funny ship.  Very funny sailors. I don't know.  Mebbe all right.  We
see."
"You think trouble?" I asked pointedly.
"I think sailors very funny," he evaded.
CHAPTER VIII
Having lighted my cigarette, I strolled for'ard along the deck to where
work was going on.  Above my head dim shapes of canvas showed in the
starlight. Sail was being made, and being made slowly, as I might judge,
who was only the veriest tyro in such matters.  The indistinguishable
shapes of men, in long lines, pulled on ropes.  They pulled in sick and
dogged silence, though Mr. Pike, ubiquitous, snarled out orders and
rapped out oaths from every angle upon their miserable heads.
Certainly, from what I had read, no ship of the old days ever proceeded
so sadly and blunderingly to sea.  Ere long Mr. Mellaire joined Mr. Pike
in the struggle of directing the men.  It was not yet eight in the
evening, and all hands were at work.  They did not seem to know the
ropes.  Time and again, when the half-hearted suggestions of the bosuns
had been of no avail, I saw one or the other of the mates leap to the
rail and put the right rope in the hands of the men.
These, on the deck, I concluded, were the hopeless ones.  Up aloft, from
sounds and cries, I knew were other men, undoubtedly those who were at
least a little seaman-like, loosing the sails.
But on deck!  Twenty or thirty of the poor devils, tailed on a rope that
hoisted a yard, would pull without concerted effort and with painfully
slow movements.  "Walk away with it!" Mr. Pike would yell.  And perhaps
for two or three yards they would manage to walk with the rope ere they
came to a halt like stalled horses on a hill.  And yet, did either of the
mates spring in and add his strength, they were able to move right along
the deck without stopping.  Either of the mates, old men that they were,
was muscularly worth half-a-dozen of the wretched creatures.
