These men, the discouraged worker and the discouraged criminal,
voluntarily withdraw themselves from the struggle for work.  Industry
does not need them.  There are no factories shut down through lack of
labor, no projected railroads unbuilt for want of pick-and-shovel men.
Women are still glad to toil for a dollar a week, and men and boys to
clamor and fight for work at the factory gates.  No one misses these
discouraged men, and in going away they have made it somewhat easier for
those that remain.
                                * * * * *
So the case stands thus: There being more men than there is work for men
to do, a surplus labor army inevitably results.  The surplus labor army
is an economic necessity; without it, present society would fall to
pieces.  Into the surplus labor army are herded the mediocre, the
inefficient, the unfit, and those incapable of satisfying the industrial
needs of the system.  The struggle for work between the members of the
surplus labor army is sordid and savage, and at the bottom of the social
pit the struggle is vicious and beastly.  This struggle tends to
discouragement, and the victims of this discouragement are the criminal
and the tramp.  The tramp is not an economic necessity such as the
surplus labor army, but he is the by-product of an economic necessity.
The "road" is one of the safety-valves through which the waste of the
social organism is given off.  And _being given off_ constitutes the
negative function of the tramp.  Society, as at present organized, makes
much waste of human life.  This waste must be eliminated.  Chloroform or
electrocution would be a simple, merciful solution of this problem of
elimination; but the ruling ethics, while permitting the human waste,
will not permit a humane elimination of that waste.  This paradox
demonstrates the irreconcilability of theoretical ethics and industrial
need.
And so the tramp becomes self-eliminating.  And not only self!  Since he
is manifestly unfit for things as they are, and since kind is prone to
beget kind, it is necessary that his kind cease with him, that his
progeny shall not be, that he play the eunuch's part in this twentieth
century after Christ.  And he plays it.  He does not breed.  Sterility is
his portion, as it is the portion of the woman on the street.  They might
have been mates, but society has decreed otherwise.
And, while it is not nice that these men should die, it is ordained that
they must die, and we should not quarrel with them if they cumber our
highways and kitchen stoops with their perambulating carcasses.  This is
a form of elimination we not only countenance but compel.  Therefore let
us be cheerful and honest about it.  Let us be as stringent as we please
with our police regulations, but for goodness' sake let us refrain from
telling the tramp to go to work.  Not only is it unkind, but it is untrue
and hypocritical.  We know there is no work for him.  As the scapegoat to
our economic and industrial sinning, or to the plan of things, if you
will, we should give him credit.  Let us be just.  He is so made.
Society made him.  He did not make himself.
