It has been shown, theoretically and actually, that there is a class
struggle in the United States.  The quarrel over the division of the
joint product is irreconcilable.  The working class is no longer losing
its strongest and most capable members.  These men, denied room for their
ambition in the capitalist ranks, remain to be the leaders of the
workers, to spur them to discontent, to make them conscious of their
class, to lead them to revolt.
This revolt, appearing spontaneously all over the industrial field in the
form of demands for an increased share of the joint product, is being
carefully and shrewdly shaped for a political assault upon society.  The
leaders, with the carelessness of fatalists, do not hesitate for an
instant to publish their intentions to the world.  They intend to direct
the labor revolt to the capture of the political machinery of society.
With the political machinery once in their hands, which will also give
them the control of the police, the army, the navy, and the courts, they
will confiscate, with or without remuneration, all the possessions of the
capitalist class which are used in the production and distribution of the
necessaries and luxuries of life.  By this, they mean to apply the law of
eminent domain to the land, and to extend the law of eminent domain till
it embraces the mines, the factories, the railroads, and the ocean
carriers.  In short, they intend to destroy present-day society, which
they contend is run in the interest of another class, and from the
materials to construct a new society, which will be run in their
interest.
On the other hand, the capitalist class is beginning to grow conscious of
itself and of the struggle which is being waged.  It is already forming
offensive and defensive leagues, while some of the most prominent figures
in the nation are preparing to lead it in the attack upon socialism.
The question to be solved is not one of Malthusianism, "projected
efficiency," nor ethics.  It is a question of might.  Whichever class is
to win, will win by virtue of superior strength; for the workers are
beginning to say, as they said to Mr. Cunniff, "Malthus be damned."  In
their own minds they find no sanction for continuing the individual
struggle for the survival of the fittest.  As Mr. Gompers has said, they
want more, and more, and more.  The ethical import of Mr. Kidd's plan of
the present generation putting up with less in order that race efficiency
may be projected into a remote future, has no bearing upon their actions.
They refuse to be the "glad perishers" so glowingly described by
Nietzsche.
It remains to be seen how promptly the capitalist class will respond to
the call to arms.  Upon its promptness rests its existence, for if it
sits idly by, soothfully proclaiming that what ought not to be cannot be,
it will find the roof beams crashing about its head.  The capitalist
class is in the numerical minority, and bids fair to be outvoted if it
does not put a stop to the vast propaganda being waged by its enemy.  It
is no longer a question of whether or not there is a class struggle.  The
question now is, what will be the outcome of the class struggle?
