Running at the forefront of the pack was a large grey wolf--one of its
several leaders.  It was he who directed the pack's course on the heels
of the she-wolf.  It was he who snarled warningly at the younger members
of the pack or slashed at them with his fangs when they ambitiously tried
to pass him.  And it was he who increased the pace when he sighted the
she-wolf, now trotting slowly across the snow.
She dropped in alongside by him, as though it were her appointed
position, and took the pace of the pack.  He did not snarl at her, nor
show his teeth, when any leap of hers chanced to put her in advance of
him.  On the contrary, he seemed kindly disposed toward her--too kindly
to suit her, for he was prone to run near to her, and when he ran too
near it was she who snarled and showed her teeth.  Nor was she above
slashing his shoulder sharply on occasion.  At such times he betrayed no
anger.  He merely sprang to the side and ran stiffly ahead for several
awkward leaps, in carriage and conduct resembling an abashed country
swain.
This was his one trouble in the running of the pack; but she had other
troubles.  On her other side ran a gaunt old wolf, grizzled and marked
with the scars of many battles.  He ran always on her right side.  The
fact that he had but one eye, and that the left eye, might account for
this.  He, also, was addicted to crowding her, to veering toward her till
his scarred muzzle touched her body, or shoulder, or neck.  As with the
running mate on the left, she repelled these attentions with her teeth;
but when both bestowed their attentions at the same time she was roughly
jostled, being compelled, with quick snaps to either side, to drive both
lovers away and at the same time to maintain her forward leap with the
pack and see the way of her feet before her.  At such times her running
mates flashed their teeth and growled threateningly across at each other.
They might have fought, but even wooing and its rivalry waited upon the
more pressing hunger-need of the pack.
After each repulse, when the old wolf sheered abruptly away from the
sharp-toothed object of his desire, he shouldered against a young three-
year-old that ran on his blind right side.  This young wolf had attained
his full size; and, considering the weak and famished condition of the
pack, he possessed more than the average vigour and spirit.  Nevertheless,
he ran with his head even with the shoulder of his one-eyed elder.  When
he ventured to run abreast of the older wolf (which was seldom), a snarl
and a snap sent him back even with the shoulder again.  Sometimes,
however, he dropped cautiously and slowly behind and edged in between the
old leader and the she-wolf.  This was doubly resented, even triply
resented.  When she snarled her displeasure, the old leader would whirl
on the three-year-old.  Sometimes she whirled with him.  And sometimes
the young leader on the left whirled, too.
