"Poor Cynthia is quite frightened," said Mrs. Cavendish in a low clear
voice. She herself, I noticed, was dressed in her white land smock. Then
it must be later than I thought. I saw that a faint streak of daylight
was showing through the curtains of the windows, and that the clock on
the mantelpiece pointed to close upon five o'clock.
A strangled cry from the bed startled me. A fresh access of pain seized
the unfortunate old lady. The convulsions were of a violence terrible
to behold. Everything was confusion. We thronged round her, powerless to
help or alleviate. A final convulsion lifted her from the bed, until she
appeared to rest upon her head and her heels, with her body arched in
an extraordinary manner. In vain Mary and John tried to administer more
brandy. The moments flew. Again the body arched itself in that peculiar
fashion.
At that moment, Dr. Bauerstein pushed his way authoritatively into the
room. For one instant he stopped dead, staring at the figure on the
bed, and, at the same instant, Mrs. Inglethorp cried out in a strangled
voice, her eyes fixed on the doctor:
"Alfred--Alfred----" Then she fell back motionless on the pillows.
With a stride, the doctor reached the bed, and seizing her arms worked
them energetically, applying what I knew to be artificial respiration.
He issued a few short sharp orders to the servants. An imperious wave of
his hand drove us all to the door. We watched him, fascinated, though I
think we all knew in our hearts that it was too late, and that nothing
could be done now. I could see by the expression on his face that he
himself had little hope.
Finally he abandoned his task, shaking his head gravely. At that moment,
we heard footsteps outside, and Dr. Wilkins, Mrs. Inglethorp's own
doctor, a portly, fussy little man, came bustling in.
In a few words Dr. Bauerstein explained how he had happened to be
passing the lodge gates as the car came out, and had run up to the house
as fast as he could, whilst the car went on to fetch Dr. Wilkins. With a
faint gesture of the hand, he indicated the figure on the bed.
"Ve--ry sad. Ve--ry sad," murmured Dr. Wilkins. "Poor dear lady. Always
did far too much--far too much--against my advice. I warned her.
Her heart was far from strong. 'Take it easy,' I said to her,
'Take--it--easy'. But no--her zeal for good works was too great. Nature
rebelled. Na--ture--re--belled."
Dr. Bauerstein, I noticed, was watching the local doctor narrowly. He
still kept his eyes fixed on him as he spoke.
"The convulsions were of a peculiar violence, Dr. Wilkins. I am sorry
you were not here in time to witness them. They were quite--tetanic in
character."
"Ah!" said Dr. Wilkins wisely.
"I should like to speak to you in private," said Dr. Bauerstein. He
turned to John. "You do not object?"
"Certainly not."
We all trooped out into the corridor, leaving the two doctors alone, and
I heard the key turned in the lock behind us.
