Hosmer had decided that his interview with Mrs. Lafirme should not be
left further to the caprice of accident. An hour or more before noon
he rode up from the mill knowing it to be a time when he would likely
find her alone. Not seeing her he proceeded to make inquiry of the
servants; first appealing to Betsy.
"I don' know whar Miss T'rese," with a rising inflection on the
"whar." "I yain't seed her sence mornin', time she sont Unc' Hi'um
yonda to old Morico wid de light bread an' truck," replied the verbose
Betsy. "Aunt B'lindy, you know whar Miss T'rese?"
"How you want me know? standin' up everlastin' in de kitchen a bakin'
light-bread fu' lazy trash det betta be in de fiel' wurkin' a crap
like people, stid o' 'pendin' on yeda folks."
Mandy, who had been a silent listener, divining that she had perhaps
better make known certain information that was exclusively her own
piped out:--
"Miss T'rese shet up in de parla; 'low she want we all lef 'er
'lone."
Having as it were forced an entrance into the stronghold where Therese
had supposed herself secure from intrusion, Hosmer at once seated
himself beside her.
This was a room kept for the most part closed during the summer days
when the family lived chiefly on the verandas or in the wide open hall
There lingered about it the foreign scent of cool clean matting,
mingled with a faint odor of rose which came from a curious Japanese
jar that stood on the ample hearth. Through the green half-closed
shutters the air came in gentle ripples, sweeping the filmy curtains
back and forth in irregular undulations. A few tasteful pictures hung
upon the walls, alternating with family portraits, for the most part
stiff and unhandsome, except in the case of such as were of so remote
date that age gave them a claim upon the interest and admiration of a
far removed generation.
It was not entirely clear to the darkies whether this room were not a
sort of holy sanctuary, where one should scarce be permitted to
breathe, except under compulsion of a driving necessity.
"Mrs. Lafirme," began Hosmer, "Melicent tells me that she made you
acquainted last night with the matter which I wished to talk to you
about to-day."
"Yes," Therese replied, closing the book which she had made a pretense
of reading, and laying it down upon the window-sill near which she
sat; adding very simply, "Why did you not tell me long ago, Mr.
Hosmer?"
"God knows," he replied; the sharp conviction breaking upon him, that
this disclosure had some how changed the aspect of life for him.
"Natural reluctance to speak of a thing so painful--native
reticence--I don't know what. I hope you forgive me; that you will let
it make no difference in whatever regard you may have for me."
"I had better tell you at once that there must be no repetition of--of
what you told me last night."
