"This is a place thet can make a man sad, I tell you," said Gregoire,
resting his oars, and wiping the moisture from his forehead. "I
wouldn't want to be yere alone, not fur any money."
"It is an awful place," replied Melicent with a little appreciative
shudder; adding "do you consider me a bodily protection?" and feebly
smiling into his face.
"Oh; I ain't 'fraid o' any thing I can see an on'erstan'. I can han'le
mos' any thing thet's got a body. But they do tell some mighty queer
tales 'bout this lake an' the pine hills yonda."
"Queer--how?"
"W'y, ole McFarlane's buried up there on the hill; an' they's folks
'round yere says he walks about o' nights; can't res' in his grave fur
the niggas he's killed."
"Gracious! and who was old McFarlane?"
"The meanest w'ite man thet ever lived, seems like. Used to own this
place long befo' the Lafirmes got it. They say he's the person that
Mrs. W'at's her name wrote about in Uncle Tom's Cabin."
"Legree? I wonder if it could be true?" Melicent asked with interest.
"Thet's w'at they all say: ask any body."
"You'll take me to his grave, won't you Gregoire," she entreated.
"Well, not this evenin'--I reckon not. It'll have to be broad day, an'
the sun shinin' mighty bright w'en I take you to ole McFarlane's
grave."
They had retraced their course and again entered the bayou, from which
the light had now nearly vanished, making it needful that they watch
carefully to escape the hewn logs that floated in numbers upon the
water.
"I didn't suppose you were ever sad, Gregoire," Melicent said gently.
"Oh my! yes;" with frank acknowledgment. "You ain't ever seen me w'en
I was real lonesome. 'Tain't so bad sence you come. But times w'en I
git to thinkin' 'bout home, I'm boun' to cry--seems like I can't he'p
it."
"Why did you ever leave home?" she asked sympathetically.
"You see w'en father died, fo' year ago, mother she went back to
France, t'her folks there; she never could stan' this country--an'
lef' us boys to manage the place. Hec, he took charge the firs' year
an' run it in debt. Placide an' me did'n' have no betta luck the naxt
year. Then the creditors come up from New Orleans an' took holt.
That's the time I packed my duds an' lef'."
"And you came here?"
"No, not at firs'. You see the Santien boys had a putty hard name in
the country. Aunt Therese, she'd fallen out with father years ago
'bout the way, she said, he was bringin' us up. Father, he wasn't the
man to take nothin' from nobody. Never 'lowed any of us to come down
yere. I was in Texas, goin' to the devil I reckon, w'en she sent for
me, an' yere I am."
"And here you ought to stay, Gregoire."
"Oh, they ain't no betta woman in the worl' then Aunt Therese, w'en
you do like she wants. See 'em yonda waitin' fur us? Reckon they
thought we was drowned."
