Gregoire slept now in the office of the mill, as a measure of
precaution. To-night, Hosmer had received certain late telegrams that
necessitated a return to the mill, and his iron-grey was standing
outside in the lane with Gregoire's horse, awaiting the pleasure of
his rider. When Gregoire quitted the group to go and throw the saddles
across the patient animals, Melicent, who contemplated an additional
hour's chat with Therese, crossed over to the cottage to procure a
light wrap for her sensitive shoulders against the chill night air.
Hosmer, who had started to the assistance of Gregoire, seeing that
Therese had remained alone, standing at the top of the stairs,
approached her. Remaining a few steps below her, and looking up into
her face, he held out his hand to say good-night, which was an unusual
proceeding, for they had not shaken hands since his return to
Place-du-Bois three months before. She gave him her soft hand to hold
and as the warm, moist palm met his, it acted like a charged electric
battery turning its subtle force upon his sensitive nerves.
"Will you let me talk to you to-morrow?" he asked.
"Yes, perhaps; if I have time."
"Oh, you will make the time. I can't let the day go by without telling
you many things that you ought to have known long ago." The battery
was still doing its work. "And I can't let the night go by without
telling you that I love you."
Gregoire called out that the horses were ready. Melicent was
approaching in her diaphanous envelope, and Hosmer reluctantly let
drop Therese's hand and left her.
As the men rode away, the two women stood silently following their
diminishing outlines into the darkness and listening to the creaking
of the saddles and the dull regular thud of the horses' feet upon the
soft earth, until the sounds grew inaudible, when they turned to the
inner shelter of the veranda. Melicent once more possessed herself of
the hammock in which she now reclined fully, and Therese sat near
enough beside her to intertwine her fingers between the tense cords.
"What a great difference in age there must be between you and your
brother," she said, breaking the silence.
"Yes--though he is younger and I older than you perhaps think. He was
fifteen and the only child when I was born. I am twenty-four, so he of
course is thirty-nine."
"I certainly thought him older."
"Just imagine, Mrs. Lafirme, I was only ten when both my parents died.
We had no kindred living in the West, and I positively rebelled
against being separated from David; so you see he's had the care of me
for a good many years."
"He appears very fond of you."
"Oh, not only that, but you've no idea how splendidly he's done for me
in every way. Looked after my interest and all that, so that I'm
perfectly independent. Poor Dave," she continued, heaving a profound
sigh, "he's had more than his share of trouble, if ever a man had. I
wonder when his day of compensation will come."
