VII.
The spring came early in Orville, and so subtly that no one could tell
exactly when it began. But one morning the roses were so luscious in
Placide's sunny parterres, the peas and bean-vines and borders of
strawberries so rank in his trim vegetable patches, that he called out
lustily, "No mo' winta, Judge!" to the staid Judge Blount, who went
ambling by on his gray pony.
"There's right smart o' folks don't know it, Santien," responded the
judge, with occult meaning that might be applied to certain indebted
clients back on the bayou who had not broken land yet. Ten minutes
later the judge observed sententiously, and apropos of nothing, to a
group that stood waiting for the post-office to open:--
"I see Santien's got that noo fence o' his painted. And a pretty piece
o' work it is," he added reflectively.
"Look lack Placide goin' pent mo' 'an de fence," sagaciously snickered
'Tit-Edouard, a strolling _maigre-echine_ of indefinite occupation.
"I seen 'im, me, pesterin' wid all kine o' pent on a piece o' bo'd
yistiday."
"I knows he gwine paint mo' 'an de fence," emphatically announced Uncle
Abner, in a tone that carried conviction.
"He gwine paint de house; dat what he gwine do. Did n' Marse Luke
Williams orda de paints? An' did n' I done kyar' 'em up dah myse'f?"
Seeing the deference with which this positive piece of knowledge was
received, the judge coolly changed the subject by announcing that Luke
Williams's Durham bull had broken a leg the night before in Luke's
new pasture ditch,--a piece of news that fell among his hearers with
telling, if paralytic effect.
But most people wanted to see for themselves these astonishing things
that Placide was doing. And the young ladies of the village strolled
slowly by of afternoons in couples and arm in arm. If Placide happened
to see them, he would leave his work to hand them a fine rose or a
bunch of geraniums over the dazzling white fence. But if it chanced to
be 'Tit-Edouard or Luke Williams, or any of the young men of Orville,
he pretended not to see them, or to hear the ingratiating cough that
accompanied their lingering footsteps.
In his eagerness to have his home sweet and attractive for Euphrasie's
coming, Placide had gone less frequently than ever before up to
Natchitoches. He worked and whistled and sang until the yearning for
the girl's presence became a driving need; then he would put away his
tools and mount his horse as the day was closing, and away he would
go across bayous and hills and fields until he was with her again. She
had never seemed to Placide so lovable as she was then. She had grown
more womanly and thoughtful. Her cheek had lost much of its color, and
the light in her eyes flashed less often. But her manner had gained a
something of pathetic tenderness toward her lover that moved him with
an intoxicating happiness. He could hardly wait with patience for that
day in early April which would see the fulfillment of his lifelong
hopes.
