"But, Placide, he is n't a--a--'d---- Yankee;' he's a Southerner, like
you,--a New Orleans man."
"Oh, well, he looks like a Yankee." But Placide laughed, for he was
happy since Euphrasie had kissed him, and he whistled softly as he
urged his horse to a canter and disappeared in the darkness.
The girl stood awhile with clasped hands, trying to understand a little
sigh that rose in her throat, and that was not one of regret. When shew
regained the house, she went directly to her room, and left her father
talking to Offdean in the quiet and perfumed night.
       *       *       *       *       *
V.
When two weeks had passed, Offdean felt very much at home with old
Pierre and his daughter, and found the business that had called him
to the country so engrossing that he had given no thought to those
personal questions he had hoped to solve in going there.
The old man had driven him around in the no-top buggy to show him how
dismantled the fences and barns were. He could see for himself that the
house was a constant menace to human life. In the evenings the three
would sit out on the gallery and talk of the land and its strong points
and its weak ones, till he came to know it as if it had been his own.
Of the rickety condition of the cabins he got a fair notion, for he
and Euphrasie passed them almost daily on horseback, on their way to
the woods. It was seldom that their appearance together did not rouse
comment among the darkies who happened to be loitering about.
La Chatte, a broad black woman with ends of white wool sticking out
from under her _tignon_, stood with arms _akimbo_ watching them as they
disappeared one day. Then she turned and said to a young woman who sat
in the cabin door:--
"Dat young man, ef he want to listen to me, he gwine quit dat ar
caperin' roun' Miss 'Phrasie."
The young woman in the doorway laughed, and showed her white teeth, and
tossed her head, and fingered the blue beads at her throat, in a way to
indicate that she was in hearty sympathy with any question that touched
upon gallantry.
"Law! La Chatte, you ain' gwine hinder a gemman f'om payin' intentions
to a young lady w'en he a mine to."
"Dat all I got to say," returned La Chatte, seating herself lazily and
heavily on the doorstep. "Nobody don' know dem Sanchun boys bettah 'an
I does. Did n' I done part raise 'em? W'at you reckon my ha'r all tu'n
plumb w'ite dat-a-way ef it warn't dat Placide w'at done it?"
"How come he make yo' ha'r tu'n w'ite, La Chatte?"
"Dev'ment, pu' dev'ment, Rose. Did n' he come in dat same cabin one
day, w'en he warn't no bigga 'an dat Pres'dent Hayes w'at you sees
gwine 'long de road wid dat cotton sack 'crost 'im? He come an' sets
down by de do', on dat same t'ree-laigged stool w'at you's a-settin'
on now, wid his gun in his ban', an' he say: 'La Chatte, I wants some
croquignoles, an' I wants 'em quick, too.' I 'low: 'G' 'way f'om dah,
boy. Don' you see I's flutin' yo' ma's petticoat?' He say: 'La Chatte,
put 'side dat ar flutin'i'on an' dat ar petticoat;' an' he cock dat gun
an' p'int it to my head. 'Dar de ba'el,' he say; 'git out dat flour,
git out dat butta an' dat aigs; step roun' dah, ole 'oman. Dis heah
gun don' quit yo' head tell dem croquignoles is on de table, wid a
w'ite table-clof an' a cup o' coffee.' Ef I goes to de ba'el, de gun's
a-p'intin'. Ef I goes to de fiah, de gun's ar-p'intin'. W'en I rolls
out de dough, de gun's a-p'intin'; an' him neva say nuttin', an' me
a-trim'lin' like ole Uncle Noah w'en de mis'ry strike 'im."
