"Well," she said in a very decided fashion, "I know you 'll fin' one
or two persons in town who 'll begin by running down the lan' till you
would n' want it as a gif', Mr. Offdean; and who will en' by offering
to take it off yo' han's for the promise of a song, with the lan' as
security again."
They both laughed, and Placide, who was approaching, scowled. But
before he reached the steps his instinctive sense of the courtesy due
to a stranger had banished the look of ill humor. His bearing was so
frank and graceful, and his face such a marvel of beauty, with its
dark, rich coloring and soft lines, that the well-clipped and groomed
Offdean felt his astonishment to be more than half admiration when
they shook hands. He knew that the Santiens had been the former owners
of this plantation which he had come to look after, and naturally he
expected some sort of cooperation or direct assistance from Placide in
his efforts at reconstruction. But Placide proved non-committal, and
exhibited an indifference and ignorance concerning the condition of
affairs that savored surprisingly of affectation.
He had positively nothing to say so long as the talk touched upon
matters concerning Offdean's business there. He was only a little less
taciturn when more general topics were approached, and directly after
supper he saddled his horse and went away. He would not wait until
morning, for the moon would be rising about midnight, and he knew the
road as well by night as by day. He knew just where the best fords were
across the bayous, and the safest paths across the hills. He knew for
a certainty whose plantations he might traverse, and whose fences he
might derail. But, for that matter, he would derail what he liked, and
cross where he pleased.
Euphrasie walked with him to the shed when he went for his horse. She
was bewildered at his sudden determination, and wanted it explained.
"I don' like that man," he admitted frankly; "I can't stan' him. Sen'
me word w'en he's gone, Euphrasie."
She was patting and rubbing the pony, which knew her well. Only their
dim outlines were discernible in the thick darkness.
"You are foolish, Placide," she replied in French. "You would do better
to stay and help him. No one knows the place so well as you"--
"The place isn't mine, and it's nothing to me," he answered bitterly.
He took her hands and kissed them passionately, but stooping, she
pressed her lips upon his forehead.
"Oh!" he exclaimed rapturously, "you do love me, Euphrasie?" His arms
were holding her, and his lips brushing her hair and cheeks as they
eagerly but ineffectually sought hers.
"Of co'se I love you, Placide. Ain't I going to marry you nex' spring?
You foolish boy!" she replied, disengaging herself from his clasp.
When he was mounted, he stooped to say, "See yere, Euphrasie, don't
have too much to do with that d---- Yankee."
