Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph did not cross the trestle the following
day, nor the next nor the next. Laballiere watched for her; for his
big heart was already sore and filled with shame. But more, it stung
him with remorse to realize that he had been the stupid instrument in
taking the bread, as it were, from the mouth of Mademoiselle St. Denys
Godolph.
He recalled how unflinchingly and haughtily her blue eyes had
challenged his own. Her sweetness and charm came back to him and he
dwelt upon them and exaggerated them, till no Venus, so far unearthed,
could in any way approach Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph. He would have
liked to exterminate the Giestin family, from the great-grandmother
down to the babe unborn.
Perhaps Giesten suspected this unfavorable attitude, for one morning he
piled his whole family and all his effects into wagons, and went away;
over into that part of the parish known as _l'Isle des Mulatres_.
Laballiere's really chivalrous nature told him, beside, that he owed
an apology, at least, to the young lady who had taken his whim so
seriously. So he crossed the bayou one day and penetrated into the
wilds where Madame St. Denys Godolph ruled.
An alluring little romance formed in his mind as he went; he fancied
how easily it might follow the apology. He was almost in love with
Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph when he quitted his plantation. By the
time he had reached hers, he was wholly so.
He was met by Madame mere, a sweet-eyed, faded woman, upon whom old age
had fallen too hurriedly to completely efface all traces of youth. But
the house was old beyond question; decay had eaten slowly to the heart
of it during the hours, the days, and years that it had been standing.
"I have come to see your daughter, madame," began Laballiere, all too
bluntly; for there is no denying he was blunt.
"Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph is not presently at home, sir," madame
replied. "She is at the time in New Orleans. She fills there a place of
high trus' an' employment, Monsieur Laballiere."
       *       *       *       *       *
When Suzanne had ever thought of New Orleans, it was always in
connection with Hector Santien, because he was the only soul she knew
who dwelt there. He had had no share in obtaining for her the position
she had secured with one of the leading dry-goods firms; yet it was
to him she addressed herself when her arrangements to leave home were
completed.
He did not wait for her train to reach the city, but crossed the river
and met her at Gretna. The first thing he did was to kiss her, as he
had done eight years before when he left Natchitoches parish. An hour
later he would no more have thought of kissing Suzanne than he would
have tendered an embrace to the Empress of China. For by that time he
had realized that she was no longer twelve nor he twenty-four.
