     WANTED! MESSENGERS! FLEETER THAN HORSES, SWIFTER THAN MEN, TO CARRY
     MY MESSAGES, A MILLION TIMES TEN.
and he signed it simply, "The Earth King." Then he went into his rainbow
house and laid himself down to sleep on his rainbow bed.
He had scarcely fallen asleep when there came a _rustle, rustle,
rustle_ at the rainbow window,
and a _rattle, rattle, rattle_ at the rainbow door. He sprang quickly
from his great bed.
"Who be ye?" he asked.
"We be messengers," came the reply, "come to serve the King."
Then the King opened the door. There before him stood four of the
strangest creatures that he had ever seen. They were so light that they
could stand on nothing; they had great wide wings; they had pale faces
and gleaming eyes; and they had light garments that floated and flapped
and fluttered in the breeze.
"What are your names?" asked the King.
"We are the Winds," answered the mightiest of the four, "East Wind, West
Wind, South Wind, North Wind," pointing to each in turn, himself last.
"We have come--
    _Fleeter than horses, swifter than men,
    To carry your messages, a million times ten._"
Then the King spoke to them in deep and solemn tone: "The task is a
great one. The King's business is grave and important. My messengers
must be swift and faithful. Are ye able?"
Then the four winds piously crossed their breasts with their wings and
whispered, "Try us and see, try us and see, try us and see."
So the King tried them.
"Down by the sea," said the King, "far over the mountains, many hours
away, there lives a fisher folk that I love. Every day the men of the
village go forth in their little boats to fish, and every evening they
come home with their catch. But of late thick and heavy clouds have hung
about them. They have not dared go forth lest they should not reach home
again, and their families begin to be in want. Go to them to-day. Drive
away the fog and clouds that the people may be happy again. Quick!
away!"
Then the four winds lifted their swift, beautiful wings and were gone.
Faster and faster they flew till none could tell how fast they flew.
Over the meadows they went and over the mountains. Each tried to
outwing the others until it became a fierce and careless game. So
blind and careless were they in their sport that they did not notice how
they whirled the sand, and broke the trees, and tossed the water.
Swiftly through the fishing village they tore, hurling its poor houses
to the ground and _crashing, dashing, slashing, smashing_ the waves
upon the fallen wrecks and the frightened and suffering folk.
Not until they were weary with their furious sport did they remember the
errand on which the King had sent them. They retraced their steps as
quickly as they could, but alas! to their shame and grief, the village
lay in ruins and the people wept for their loss.
