So the devil, very tired and very cross, shambled back to earth with
Katcha still clinging to his neck. He tried every way to get her off. He
promised her wooded hills and rich meadows if she but let him go. He
cajoled her, he cursed her, but all to no avail. Katcha still held on.
Breathless and discouraged he came at last to a meadow where a
shepherd, wrapped in a great shaggy sheepskin coat, was tending his
flocks. The devil transformed himself into an ordinary looking man so
that the shepherd didn't recognize him.
"Hi, there," the shepherd said, "what's that you're carrying?"
"Don't ask me," the devil said with a sigh. "I'm so worn out I'm nearly
dead. I was walking yonder not thinking of anything at all when along
comes a woman and jumps on my back and won't let go. I'm trying to carry
her to the nearest village to get rid of her there, but I don't believe
I'm able. My legs are giving out."
The shepherd, who was a good-natured chap, said: "I tell you what: I'll
help you. I can't leave my sheep long, but I'll carry her halfway."
"Oh," said the devil, "I'd be very grateful if you did!"
So the shepherd yelled at Katcha: "Hi, there, you! Catch hold of me!"
When Katcha saw that the shepherd was a handsome youth, she let go of
the devil and leapt upon the shepherd's back, catching hold of the
collar of his sheepskin coat.
Now the young shepherd soon found that the long shaggy coat and Katcha
made a pretty heavy load for walking. In a few moments he was sick of
his bargain and began casting about for some way of getting rid of
Katcha.
Presently he came to a pond and he thought to himself that he'd like to
throw her in. He wondered how he could do it. Perhaps he could manage it
by throwing in his greatcoat with her. The coat was so loose that he
thought he could slip out of it without Katcha's discovering what he was
doing. Very cautiously he slipped out one arm. Katcha didn't move. He
slipped out the other arm. Still Katcha didn't move. He unlooped the
first button. Katcha noticed nothing. He unlooped the second button.
Still Katcha noticed nothing. He unlooped the third button and kerplunk!
he had pitched coat and Katcha and all into the middle of the pond!
When he got back to his sheep, the devil looked at him in amazement.
"Where's Katcha?" he gasped.
"Oh," the shepherd said, pointing over his shoulder with his thumb, "I
decided to leave her up yonder in a pond."
"My dear friend," the devil cried, "I thank you! You have done me a
great favor. If it hadn't been for you I might be carrying Katcha till
dooms-day. I'll never forget you and some time I'll reward you. As you
don't know who it is you've helped, I must tell you I'm a devil."
