"A few children's aprons hung in the little window, with some knit
lace, balls, and old-fashioned garters, two or three dolls, and a
very poor display of small wares. In a show-case, however, on the
table that was the counter, I found some really pretty things, made
of plush, silk, and ribbon, with a good deal of taste. So I said I'd
buy a needle-book, and a gay ball, and a pair of distracting baby's
shoes, made to look like little open-work socks with pink
ankle-ties, so cunning and dainty, I was glad to get them for Cousin
Clara's baby. The woman seemed pleased, though she had a grim way of
talking, and never smiled once. I observed that she handled my hat
as if used to such work, and evidently liked to do it. I thanked her
for repairing damages so quickly and well, and she said, with my hat
on her hand, as if she hated to part with it, 'I'm used to
millineryin' and never should have give it up, if I didn't have my
folks to see to. I took this shop, hopin' to make things go, as such
a place was needed round here, but mother broke down, and is a sight
of care; so I couldn't leave her, and doctors is expensive, and
times hard, and I had to drop my trade, and fall back on pins and
needles, and so on.'"
Ella was a capital mimic, and imitated the nasal tones of the
Vermont woman to the life, with a doleful pucker of her own blooming
face, which gave such a truthful picture of poor Miss Almira Miller
that those who had seen her recognized it at once, and laughed
gayly.
"Just as I was murmuring a few words of regret at her bad luck,"
continued Ella, "a sharp voice called out from a back room, 'Almiry!
Almiry! come here.' It sounded very like a cross parrot, but it was
the old lady, and while I put on my hat I heard her asking who was
in the shop, and what we were 'gabbin' about.' Her daughter told
her, and the old soul demanded to 'see the gal;' so I went in, being
ready for fun as usual. It was a little, dark, dismal place, but as
neat as a pin, and in the bed sat a regular Grandma Smallweed
smoking a pipe, with a big cap, a snuff-box, and a red cotton
handkerchief. She was a tiny, dried-up thing, brown as a berry, with
eyes like black beads, a nose and chin that nearly met, and hands
like birds' claws. But such a fierce, lively, curious, blunt old
lady you never saw, and I didn't know what would be the end of me
when she began to question, then to scold, and finally to demand
that 'folks should come and trade to Almiry's shop after promisin'
they would, and she havin' took a lease of the place on account of
them lies.' I wanted to laugh, but dared not do it, so just let her
croak, for the daughter had to go to her customers. The old lady's
tirade informed me that they came from Vermont, had 'been wal on 't
till father died and the farm was sold.' Then it seems the women
came to Boston and got on pretty well till 'a stroke of numb-palsy,'
whatever that is, made the mother helpless and kept Almiry at home
to care for her. I can't tell you how funny and yet how sad it was
to see the poor old soul, so full of energy and yet so helpless, and
the daughter so discouraged with her pathetic little shop and no
customers to speak of. I did not know what to say till 'Grammer
Miller,' as the children call her, happened to say, when she took up
her knitting after the lecture, 'If folks who go spendin' money
reckless on redic'lus toys for Christmas only knew what nice things,
useful and fancy, me and Almiry could make ef we had the goods,
they'd jest come round this corner and buy 'em, and keep me out of a
Old Woman's Home and that good, hard-workin' gal of mine out of a
'sylum; for go there she will ef she don't get a boost somehow, with
rent and firin' and vittles all on her shoulders, and me only able
to wag them knittin'-needles.'
