"I was SO sorry we had forgotten him! but HE never complained, only
said, with his cheerful grin,' I kinder mistrusted the Colonel was
away, but I wasn't goin' to pester him.' He tried to be jolly,
though in dreadful pain; called Harry 'Major,' and was so grateful
for all we brought him, though he didn't want oranges and tea, and
made us shout when I said, like a goose, thinking that was the
proper thing to do, 'Shall I bathe your brow, you are so feverish?'
"'No, thanky, miss, it was swabbed pretty stiddy to the horsepittle,
and I reckon a trifle of tobaccer would do more good and be a sight
more relishin', ef you'll excuse my mentionin' it.'
"Harry rushed off and got a great lump and a pipe, and Joe lay
blissfully puffing, in a cloud of smoke, when we left him, promising
to come again. We did go nearly every day, and had lovely times; for
Joe told us his adventures, and we got so interested in the war that
I began to read up evenings, and Papa was pleased, and fought all
his battles over again for us, and Harry and I were great friends
reading together, and Papa was charmed to see the old General's
spirit in us, as we got excited and discussed all our wars in a
fever of patriotism that made Mamma laugh. Joe said I 'brustled up'
at the word BATTLE like a war-horse at the smell of powder, and I'd
ought to have been a drummer, the sound of martial music made me so
'skittish.'
"It was all new and charming to us young ones, but poor old Joe had
a hard time, and was very ill. Exposure and fatigue, and scanty
food, and loneliness, and his wounds, were too much for him, and it
was plain his working days were over. He hated the thought of the
poor-house at home, which was all his own town could offer him, and
he had no friends to live with, and he could not get a pension,
something being wrong about his papers; so he would have been badly
off, but for the Soldiers' Home at Chelsea. As soon as he was able,
Papa got him in there, and he was glad to go, for that seemed the
proper place, and a charity the proudest man might accept, after
risking his life for his country.
"There is where I used to be going when you saw me, and I was SO
afraid you'd smell the cigars in my basket. The dear old boys always
want them, and Papa says they MUST have them, though it isn't half
so romantic as flowers, and jelly, and wine, and the dainty messes
we women always want to carry. I've learned about different kinds of
tobacco and cigars, and you'd laugh to see me deal out my gifts,
which are received as gratefully as the Victoria Cross, when the
Queen decorates HER brave men. I'm quite a great gun over there, and
the boys salute when I come, tell me their woes, and think that Papa
and I can run the whole concern. I like it immensely, and am as
proud and fond of my dear old wrecks as if I'd been a Rigoletto, and
ridden on a cannon from my babyhood. That's MY story, but I can't
begin to tell how interesting it all is, nor how glad I am that it
led me to look into the history of American wars, in which brave men
of our name did their parts so well."
