A hearty round of applause greeted Marion's tale, for her glowing
face and excited voice stirred the patriotic spirit of the Boston
girls, and made them beam approvingly upon her.
"Now, Maggie, dear, last but not least, I'm sure," said Anna, with
an encouraging glance, for SHE had discovered the secret of this
friend, and loved her more than ever for it.
Maggie blushed and hesitated, as she put down the delicate muslin
cap-strings she was hemming with such care. Then, looking about her
with a face in which both humility and pride contended, she said
with an effort, "After the other lively experiences, mine will sound
very flat. In fact, I have no story to tell, for MY charity began at
home, and stopped there."
"Tell it, dear. I know it is interesting, and will do us all good,"
said Anna, quickly; and, thus supported, Maggie went on.
"I planned great things, and talked about what I meant to do, till
Papa said one day, when things were in a mess, as they often are at
our house, 'If the little girls who want to help the world along
would remember that charity begins at home, they would soon find
enough to do.'
"I was rather taken aback, and said no more, but after Papa had gone
to the office, I began to think, and looked round to see what there
was to be done at that particular moment. I found enough for that
day, and took hold at once; for poor Mamma had one of her bad
headaches, the children could not go out because it rained, and so
were howling in the nursery, cook was on a rampage, and Maria had
the toothache. Well, I began by making Mamma lie down for a good
long sleep. I kept the children quiet by giving them my ribbon box
and jewelry to dress up with, put a poultice on Maria's face, and
offered to wash the glass and silver for her, to appease cook, who
was as cross as two sticks over extra work washing-day. It wasn't
much fun, as you may imagine, but I got through the afternoon, and
kept the house still, and at dusk crept into Mamma's room and softly
built up the fire, so it should be cheery when she waked. Then I
went trembling to the kitchen for some tea, and there found three
girls calling, and high jinks going on; for one whisked a plate of
cake into the table drawer, another put a cup under her shawl, and
cook hid the teapot, as I stirred round in the china closet before
opening the slide, through a crack of which I'd seen, heard, and
smelt 'the party,' as the children call it.
"I was angry enough to scold the whole set, but I wisely held my
tongue, shut my eyes, and politely asked for some hot water, nodded
to the guests, and told cook Maria was better, and would do her work
if she wanted to go out.
