"I guess I won't read, but sit and look on. I like to watch people,
everything is so new and queer here."
But Polly did feel and look very shy, when she was ushered into a room
full of young ladies, as they seemed to her, all very much dressed, all
talking together, and all turning to examine the new-comer with a cool
stare which seemed to be as much the fashion as eye-glasses. They nodded
affably when Fanny introduced her, said something civil, and made room
for her at the table round which they sat waiting for Monsieur. Several
of the more frolicsome were imitating the Grecian Bend, some were
putting their heads together over little notes, nearly all were eating
confectionery, and the entire twelve chattered like magpies. Being
politely supplied with caramels, Polly sat looking and listening,
feeling very young and countrified among these elegant young ladies.
"Girls, do you know that Carrie has gone abroad? There has been so much
talk, her father could n't bear it, and took the whole family off. Is
n't that gay?" said one lively damsel, who had just come in.
"I should think they'd better go. My mamma says, if I'd been going to
that school, she'd have taken me straight away," answered another girl,
with an important air.
"Carrie ran away with an Italian music-teacher, and it got into the
papers, and made a great stir," explained the first speaker to Polly,
who looked mystified.
"How dreadful!" cried Polly.
"I think it was fun. She was only sixteen, and he was perfectly
splendid; and she has plenty of money, and every one talked about it;
and when she went anywhere, people looked, you know, and she liked it;
but her papa is an old poke, so he's sent them all away. It's too bad,
for she was the jolliest thing I ever knew."
Polly had nothing to say to lively Miss Belle; but Fanny observed, "I
like to read about such things; but it's so inconvenient to have it
happen right here, because it makes it harder for us. I wish you could
have heard my papa go on. He threatened to send a maid to school with me
every day, as they do in New York, to be sure I come all right. Did you
ever?" "That's because it came out that Carrie used to forge excuses in
her mamma's name, and go promenading with her Oreste, when they thought
her safe at school. Oh, was n't she a sly minx?" cried Belle, as if she
rather admired the trick.
"I think a little fun is all right; and there's no need of making a
talk, if, now and then, some one does run off like Carrie. Boys do
as they like; and I don't see why girls need to be kept so dreadfully
close. I'd like to see anybody watching and guarding me!" added another
dashing young lady.
"It would take a policeman to do that, Trix, or a little man in a tall
hat," said Fanny, slyly, which caused a general laugh, and made Beatrice
toss her head coquettishly.
