"Is the pain any easier, my darling?" asked Mrs. Minot, leaning over the
pillow, where the golden head lay quiet for a moment.
"Not much. I forget it listening to the music. Dear old Ed is playing
all my favorite tunes, and it is very nice. I guess he feels pretty
sorry about me."
"They all do. Frank could not talk of it. Gus wouldn't go home to tea,
he was so anxious to do something for us. Joe brought back the bits of
your poor sled, because he didn't like to leave them lying round for any
one to carry off, he said, and you might like them to remember your fall
by."
Jack tried to laugh, but it was rather a failure, though he managed to
say, cheerfully,--
"That was good of old Joe. I wouldn't lend him 'Thunderbolt' for fear
he'd hurt it. Couldn't have smashed it up better than I did, could he?
Don't think I want any pieces to remind me of _that_ fall. I just wish
you'd seen us, mother! It must have been a splendid spill to look at,
any way."
"No, thank you; I'd rather not even try to imagine my precious boy going
heels over head down that dreadful hill. No more pranks of that sort for
some time, Jacky;" and Mrs. Minot looked rather pleased on the whole to
have her venturesome bird safe under her maternal wing.
"No coasting till some time in January. What a fool I was to do it!
Go-bangs always are dangerous, and that's the fun of the thing. Oh
dear!"
Jack threw his arms about and frowned darkly, but never said a word of
the wilful little baggage who had led him into mischief; he was too much
of a gentleman to tell on a girl, though it cost him an effort to hold
his tongue, because Mamma's good opinion was very precious to him, and
he longed to explain. She knew all about it, however, for Jill had been
carried into the house reviling herself for the mishap, and even in the
midst of her own anxiety for her boy, Mrs. Minot understood the state of
the case without more words. So she now set his mind at rest by saying,
quietly.
"Foolish fun, as you see, dear. Another time, stand firm and help Jill
to control her headstrong will. When you learn to yield less and she
more, there will be no scrapes like this to try us all."
"I'll remember, mother. I hate not to be obliging, but I guess it would
have saved us lots of trouble if I'd said No in the beginning. I tried
to, but she _would_ go. Poor Jill! I'll take better care of her next
time. Is she very ill, Mamma?"
"I can tell you better to-morrow. She does not suffer much, and we hope
there is no great harm done."
"I wish she had a nice place like this to be sick in. It must be very
poky in those little rooms," said Jack, as his eye roved round the large
chamber where he lay so cosey, warm, and pleasant, with the gay chintz
curtains draping doors and windows, the rosy carpet, comfortable chairs,
and a fire glowing in the grate.
