"Lie down and take a good nap, mother dear, I feel first-rate, and Frank
can see to me if I want anything. Do, now," he added, with a persuasive
nod toward the couch, and a boyish relish in stirring up his lazy
brother.
After some urging, Mamma consented to go to her room for forty winks,
leaving Jack in the care of Frank, begging him to be as quiet as
possible if the dear boy wished to sleep, and to amuse him if he did
not.
Being worn out, Mrs. Minot lengthened her forty winks into a three
hours' nap, and as the "dear boy" scorned repose, Mr. Frank had his
hands full while on guard.
"I'll read to you. Here's Watt, Arkwright, Fulton, and a lot of capital
fellows, with pictures that will do your heart good. Have a bit, will
you?" asked the new nurse, flapping the leaves invitingly.--for Frank
had a passion for such things, and drew steam-engines all over his
slate, as Tommy Traddles drew hosts of skeletons when low in his
spirits.
"I don't want any of your old boilers and stokers and whirligigs. I'm
tired of reading, and want something regularly jolly," answered Jack,
who had been chasing white buffaloes with "The Hunters of the West,"
till he was a trifle tired and fractious.
"Play cribbage, euchre, anything you like;" and Frank obligingly
disinterred himself from under the folios, feeling that it _was_ hard
for a fellow to lie flat a whole week.
"No fun; just two of us. Wish school was over, so the boys would come
in; doctor said I might see them now."
"They'll be along by and by, and I'll hail them. Till then, what shall
we do? I'm your man for anything, only put a name to it."
"Just wish I had a telegraph or a telephone, so I could talk to Jill.
Wouldn't it be fun to pipe across and get an answer!"
"I'll make either you say;" and Frank looked as if trifles of that sort
were to be had for the asking.
"Could you, really?"
"We'll start the telegraph first, then you can send things over if you
like," said Frank, prudently proposing the surest experiment.
"Go ahead, then. I'd like that, and so would Jill, for I know she wants
to hear from me."
"There's one trouble, though; I shall have to leave you alone for a few
minutes while I rig up the ropes;" and Frank looked sober, for he was a
faithful boy, and did not want to desert his post.
"Oh, never mind; I won't want anything. If I do, I can pound for Ann."
"And wake mother. I'll fix you a better way than that;" and, full
of inventive genius, our young Edison spliced the poker to part of a
fishing-rod in a jiffy, making a long-handled hook which reached across
the room.
"There's an arm for you; now hook away, and let's see how it works,"
he said, handing over the instrument to Jack, who proceeded to show its
unexpected capabilities by hooking the cloth off the table in attempting
to get his handkerchief, catching Frank by the hair when fishing for a
book, and breaking a pane of glass in trying to draw down the curtain.
