'And Emil, he is to be second mate next voyage; isn't that fine? I'm so
happy that both your boys have done well; you gave up so much for them
and their mother. You make light of it, dear, but I never forget it,'
said Jo, with her hand in his as sentimentally as if she was a girl
again and her Fritz had come a-wooing.
He laughed his cheery laugh, and whispered behind her fan: 'If I had not
come to America for the poor lads, I never should have found my Jo.
The hard times are very sweet now, and I bless Gott for all I seemed to
lose, because I gained the blessing of my life.'
'Spooning! spooning! Here's an awful flirtation on the sly,' cried
Teddy, peering over the fan just at that interesting moment, much to his
mother's confusion and his father's amusement; for the Professor never
was ashamed of the fact that he still considered his wife the dearest
woman in the world. Rob promptly ejected his brother from one window,
to see him skip in at the other, while Mrs Jo shut her fan and held it
ready to rap her unruly boy's knuckles if he came near her again.
Nat approached in answer to Mr Bhaer's beckoning teaspoon, and stood
before them with a face full of the respectful affection he felt for the
excellent man who had done so much for him.
'I have the letters ready for thee, my son. They are two old friends of
mine in Leipzig, who will befriend thee in that new life. It is well to
have them, for thou wilt be heartbroken with Heimweh at the first, Nat,
and need comforting,' said the Professor, giving him several letters.
'Thanks, sir. Yes, I expect to be pretty lonely till I get started, then
my music and the hope of getting on will cheer me up,' answered Nat, who
both longed and dreaded to leave all these friends behind him and make
new ones.
He was a man now; but the blue eyes were as honest as ever, the mouth
still a little weak, in spite of the carefully cherished moustache
over it, and the broad forehead more plainly than ever betrayed the
music-loving nature of the youth. Modest, affectionate, and dutiful, Nat
was considered a pleasant though not a brilliant success by Mrs Jo. She
loved and trusted him, and was sure he would do his best, but did not
expect that he would be great in any way, unless the stimulus of foreign
training and self-dependence made him a better artist and a stronger man
than now seemed likely.
'I've marked all your things--or rather, Daisy did--and as soon as your
books are collected, we can see about the packing,' said Mrs Jo, who was
so used to fitting boys off for all quarters of the globe that a trip to
the North Pole would not have been too much for her.
Nat grew red at mention of that name--or was it the last glow of sunset
on his rather pale cheek?--and his heart beat happily at the thought of
the dear girl working Ns and Bs on his humble socks and handkerchiefs;
for Nat adored Daisy, and the cherished dream of his life was to earn
a place for himself as a musician and win this angel for his wife. This
hope did more for him than the Professor's counsels, Mrs Jo's care, or
Mr Laurie's generous help. For her sake he worked, waited, and hoped,
finding courage and patience in the dream of that happy future when
Daisy should make a little home for him and he fiddle a fortune into her
lap. Mrs Jo knew this; and though he was not exactly the man she would
have chosen for her niece, she felt that Nat would always need just the
wise and loving care Daisy could give him, and that without it there was
danger of his being one of the amiable and aimless men who fail for
want of the right pilot to steer them safely through the world. Mrs Meg
decidedly frowned upon the poor boy's love, and would not hear of giving
her dear girl to any but the best man to be found on the face of the
earth. She was very kind, but as firm as such gentle souls can be; and
Nat fled for comfort to Mrs Jo, who always espoused the interests of
her boys heartily. A new set of anxieties was beginning now that the
aforesaid boys were growing up, and she foresaw no end of worry as well
as amusement in the love-affairs already budding in her flock. Mrs Meg
was usually her best ally and adviser, for she loved romances as well
now as when a blooming girl herself. But in this case she hardened her
heart, and would not hear a word of entreaty. 'Nat was not man enough,
never would be, no one knew his family, a musician's life was a hard
one; Daisy was too young, five or six years hence when time had proved
both perhaps. Let us see what absence will do for him.' And that was the
end of it, for when the maternal Pelican was roused she could be very
firm, though for her precious children she would have plucked her last
feather and given the last drop of her blood.
