"Handsome eyes, white hands, and angelic feet don't make a man. Wait
till you can do better, Kit."
With an odd, grave look, that rather startled Kitty, Jack vanished, to
return presently with a comfortable cup of tea and a motherly old lady
to help repair damages and soothe her by the foolish little purrings
and pattings so grateful to female nerves after a flurry.
"I'll come back and take you out to see the dance round the tree when
you've had a bit of a rest," said Jack, vibrating between door and
sofa as if it wasn't easy to get away.
"Oh, I couldn't," cried Kitty, with a shudder at the bare idea of
meeting any one. "I can't be seen again to-night; let me stay here
till my train goes."
"I thought it had gone, already," said Jack, with an irrepressible
twinkle of the eye that glanced at the draggled dress sweeping the
floor.
"How _can_ you joke about it!" and the girl's reproachful eyes filled
with tears of shame. "I know I've been very silly, Jack, but I've had
my punishment, and I don't need any more. To feel that you despise me
is worse than all the rest."
She ended with a little sob, and turned her face away to hide the
trembling of her lips. At that, Jack flushed up, his eyes shone,
and he stooped suddenly as if to make some impetuous reply. But,
remembering the old lady (who, by the by, was discreetly looking out
of the window), he put his hands in his pockets and strolled out of
the room.
"I've lost them both by this day's folly," thought Kitty, as Mrs.
Brown departed with the teacup. "I don't care for Fletcher, for I dare
say he didn't mean half he said, and I was only flattered because he
is rich and handsome and the girls glorify him. But I shall miss Jack,
for I've known and loved him all my life. How good he's been to me
to-day! so patient, careful, and kind, though he must have been
ashamed of me. I know he didn't like my dress; but he never said a
word and stood by me through everything. Oh, I wish I'd minded Pris!
then he would have respected me, at least; I wonder if he ever will,
again?"
Following a sudden impulse, Kitty sprang up, locked the door, and then
proceeded to destroy all her little vanities as far as possible. She
smoothed out her crimps with a wet and ruthless hand; fastened up her
pretty hair in the simple way Jack liked; gave her once cherished
bonnet a spiteful shake, as she put it on, and utterly extinguished it
with a big blue veil. She looped up her dress, leaving no vestige of
the now hateful train, and did herself up uncompromisingly in the
Quakerish gray shawl Pris had insisted on her taking for the evening.
Then she surveyed herself with pensive satisfaction, saying, in the
tone of one bent on resolutely mortifying the flesh,--
