From the influences of such parentage as I have described, the family
life in which Louisa was brought up became wholly unique.
If the father had to give up his cherished projects of a school
modelled after his ideas, he could at least conduct the education of
his own children; and he did so with the most tender devotion. Even
when they were infants he took a great deal of personal care of them,
and loved to put the little ones to bed and use the "children's hour"
to instil into their hearts lessons of love and wisdom. He was full of
fun too, and would lie on the floor and frolic with them, making
compasses of his long legs with which to draw letters and diagrams. No
shade of fear mingled with the children's reverent recognition of his
superior spiritual life. So their hearts lay open to him, and he was
able to help them in their troubles.
He taught them much by writing; and we have many specimens of their
lists of words to be spelled, written, and understood. The lessons at
Scituate were often in the garden, and their father always drew their
attention to Nature and her beautiful forms and meanings. Little
symbolical pictures helped to illustrate his lessons, and he sometimes
made drawings himself. Here is an example of lessons. A quaint little
picture represents one child playing on a harp, another drawing an
arrow. It is inscribed--
     FOR LOUISA.
     1840.
     Two passions strong divide our life,--
     Meek, gentle love, or boisterous strife.
Below the child playing the harp is--
     Love, Music,
       Concord.
Below the shooter is--
     Anger, Arrow,
       Discord.
Another leaflet is--
     FOR LOUISA
     1840.
       Louisa loves--
         What?
     (_Softly._)
         Fun.
       Have some then,
            Father
                says.
     Christmas Eve, December, 1840.
     Concordia.
       *       *       *       *       *
     FOR ANNA.
     1840.
     Beauty or Duty,--
           which
       loves Anna best?
             A
         Question
         from her
         Father.
     Christmas Eve,
     December, 1840.
     Concordia.
A letter beautifully printed by her father for Louisa (1839) speaks to
her of conscience, and she adds to it this note: "L. began early, it
seems, to wrestle with her conscience." The children were always
required to keep their journals regularly, and although these were
open to the inspection of father and mother, they were very frank, and
really recorded their struggles and desires. The mother had the habit
of writing little notes to the children when she wished to call their
attention to any fault or peculiarity. Louisa preserved many of them,
headed,--
   [_Extracts_ from letters from Mother, received during these early
   years. I preserve them to show the ever tender, watchful help she
   gave to the child who caused her the most anxiety, yet seemed to
   be the nearest to her heart till the end.--L. M. A.]
   No. 1.--MY DEAR LITTLE GIRL,--Will you accept this doll from me
   on your seventh birthday? She will be a quiet playmate for my
   active Louisa for seven years more. Be a kind mamma, and love her
   for my sake.
