Miss Alcott twice says that she never went to any school but her
father's; but there were some slight exceptions to this rule. She went
a few months to a little district school in Still River Village. This
was a genuine old-fashioned school, from which she took the hint of
the frolics in "Under the Lilacs." Miss Ford also kept a little school
in Mr. Emerson's barn, to which the children went; and Mary Russell
had a school, which Louisa attended when eight or nine years old.
These circumstances, however, had small influence in her education.
During this period of life in Concord, which was so happy to the
children, the mother's heart was full of anxious care. She however
entered into all their childish pleasures, and her watchful care over
their moral growth is shown by her letters and by Louisa's journals.
The youngest child, Abba May, who was born in the cottage, became the
pet of the family and the special care of the oldest sister, Anna.
Louisa's childish journal gives us many hints of this happy life. She
revised these journals in later years, adding significant comments
which are full of interest. She designed them to have place in her
autobiography, which she hoped to write.
From three different sources--her journals, an article written for
publication, and a manuscript prepared for a friend,--we give her own
account of these childish years. She has not followed the order of
events strictly, and it has not been possible, therefore, to avoid all
repetition; but they give the spirit of her early life, and clearly
show the kind of education she received from her father and from the
circumstances around her.
_Sketch of Childhood, by herself._
   One of my earliest recollections is of playing with books in my
   father's study,--building houses and bridges of the big
   dictionaries and diaries, looking at pictures, pretending to
   read, and scribbling on blank pages whenever pen or pencil could
   be found. Many of these first attempts at authorship still remain
   in Bacon's Essays, Plutarch's Lives, and other works of a serious
   nature, my infant taste being for solid literature, apparently.
   On one occasion we built a high tower round baby Lizzie as she
   sat playing with her toys on the floor, and being attracted by
   something out-of-doors, forgot our little prisoner. A search was
   made, and patient baby at last discovered curled up and fast
   asleep in her dungeon cell, out of which she emerged so rosy and
   smiling after her nap that we were forgiven for our carelessness.
   Another memory is of my fourth birthday, which was celebrated at
   my father's school-room in Masonic Temple. All the children were
   there. I wore a crown of flowers, and stood upon a table to
   dispense cakes to each child as the procession marched past. By
   some oversight the cakes fell short, and I saw that if I gave
   away the last one I should have none. As I was queen of the
   revel, I felt that I ought to have it, and held on to it tightly
   till my mother said,--
