"Here 's fun!" thought Tony, staring with all his might, and so much
interested in this remarkable state of things that he forgot hunger and
time altogether.
Round and round went the glittering train, to the soft music of the
many-toned finger-bowls, till three turns about the long oval table had
been made; then all fell into line for a contradance, as in the good old
times before every one took to spinning like tops.  Grandpa Ladle led
off with his oldest daughter, Madam Gravy Ladle, and the little salts
stood at the bottom prancing like real children impatient for their
turn.  When it came, they went down the middle in fine style, with a
cling! clang! that made Tony's legs quiver with a longing to join in.
It was beautiful to see the older ones twirl round in a stately way,
with bows and courtesies at the end, while the teaspoons and small forks
romped a good deal, and Mr. Pickle and Miss Mustard kept every one
laughing at their smart speeches.  The silver butter-knife, who was an
invalid, having broken her back and been mended, lay in the rack and
smiled sweetly down upon her friends, while the little Cupid on the lid
of the butter-dish pirouetted on one toe in the most delightful manner.
When every one had gone through the dance, the napkins were arranged as
sofas and the spoons rested, while the polite forks brought sprigs of
celery to fan them with.  The little salts got into grandpa's lap; and
the silver dogs lay down panting, for they had frisked with the
children.  They all talked; and Tony could not help wondering if real
ladies said such things when they put _their_ heads together and nodded
and whispered, for some of the remarks were so personal that he was much
confused. Fortunately they took no notice of him, so he listened and
learned something in this queer way.
"I have been in this family a hundred years," began the soup-ladle; "and
it seems to me that each generation is worst than the last.  My first
master was punctual to a minute, and madam was always down beforehand to
see that all was ready.  Now master comes at all hours; mistress lets
the servants do as they like; and the manners of the children are very
bad.  Sad state of things, very sad!"
"Dear me, yes!" sighed one of the large spoons; "we don't see such nice
housekeeping now as we did when we were young.  Girls were taught all
about it then; but now it is all books or parties, and few of them know
a skimmer from a gridiron."
"Well, I 'm sure the poor things are much happier than if they were
messing about in kitchens as girls used to do in your day.  It is much
better for them to be dancing, skating, and studying than wasting their
young lives darning and preserving, and sitting by their mammas as prim
as dishes.  _I_ prefer the present way of doing things, though the girls
in this family _do_ sit up too late, and wear too high heels to their
boots."
