The mustard-spoon spoke in a pert tone, and the pickle-fork answered
sharply,--
"I agree with you, cousin.  The boys also sit up too late.  I 'm tired
of being waked to fish out olives or pickles for those fellows when they
come in from the theatre or some dance; and as for that Tony, he is a
real pig,--eats everything he can lay hands on, and is the torment of
the maid's life."
"Yes," cried one little salt-spoon, "we saw him steal cake out of the
sideboard, and he never told when his mother scolded Norah."
"So mean!" added the other; and both the round faces were so full of
disgust that Tony fell flat and shut his eyes as if asleep to hide his
confusion.  Some one laughed; but he dared not look, and lay blushing
and listening to remarks which plainly proved how careful we should be
of our acts and words even when alone, for who knows what apparently
dumb thing may be watching us.
"I have observed that Mr. Murry reads the paper at table instead of
talking to his family; that Mrs. Murry worries about the servants; the
girls gossip and giggle; the boys eat, and plague one another; and that
small child Nelly teases for all she sees, and is never quiet till she
gets the sugar-bowl," said Grandpa Ladle, in a tone of regret.  "Now,
useful and pleasant chat at table would make meals delightful, instead
of being scenes of confusion and discomfort."
"I bite their tongues when I get a chance, hoping to make them witty or
to check unkind words; but they only sputter, and get a lecture from
Aunt Maria, who is a sour old spinster, always criticising her
neighbors."'
As the mustard-spoon spoke, the teaspoons laughed as if they thought
_her_ rather like Aunt Maria in that respect.
"I gave the baby a fit of colic to teach her to let pickles alone, but
no one thanked me," said the pickle-fork.
"Perhaps if we keep ourselves so bright that those who use us can see
their faces in us, we shall be able to help them a little; for no one
likes to see an ugly face or a dull spoon.  The art of changing frowns
to smiles is never old-fashioned; and lovely manners smooth away the
little worries of life beautifully."  A silvery voice spoke, and all
looked respectfully at Madam Gravy Ladle, who was a very fine old spoon,
with a coat of arms on it, and a polish that all envied.
"People can't always be remembering how old and valuable and bright they
are.  Here in America we just go ahead and make manners and money for
ourselves.  _I_ don't stop to ask what dish I 'm going to help to; I
just pitch in and take all I can hold, and don't care a bit whether I
shine or not.  My grandfather was a kitchen spoon; but I'm smarter than
he was, thanks to my plating, and look and feel as good as any one,
though I have n't got stags' heads and big letters on my handle."
