The world was all right when she got into the street again and ran home
with the precious box hugged close, feeling that at last she had
something to make a merry Christmas of.
Shrieks of joy greeted her, for Sammy's nice old lady had sent a basket
full of pies, nuts and raisins, oranges and cake, and--oh, happy
Sammy!--a sled, all for love of the blue eyes that twinkled so merrily
when he told her about the tea-tray.  Piled upon this red car of
triumph, Dilly and Dot were being dragged about, while the other
treasures were set forth on the table.
"I must show mine," cried Kitty; "we 'll look at them to-night, and have
them to-morrow;" and amid more cries of rapture _her_ box was unpacked,
_her_ money added to the pile in the middle of the table, where Sammy
had laid his handsome contribution toward the turkey.
Before the story of the splendid tree was over, in came Tommy with his
substantial offering and his hard-earned dollar.
"I 'm afraid I ought to keep my money for shoes.  I 've walked the soles
off these to-day, and can't go to school barefooted," he said, bravely
trying to put the temptation of skates behind him.
"We 've got a good dinner without a turkey, and perhaps we 'd better not
get it," added Kitty, with a sigh, as she surveyed the table, and
remembered the blue knit hood marked seventy-five cents that she saw in
a shop-window.
"Oh, we _must_ have a turkey! we worked so hard for it, and it's so
Christmasy," cried Sam, who always felt that pleasant things ought to
happen.
"Must have turty," echoed the babies, as they eyed the dolls tenderly.
"You _shall_ have a turkey, and there he is," said an unexpected voice,
as a noble bird fell upon the table, and lay there kicking up his legs
as if enjoying the surprise immensely.
It was father's voice, and there stood father, neither cross nor stupid,
but looking as he used to look, kind and happy, and beside him was
mother, smiling as they had not seen her smile for months.  It was not
because the work was well paid for, and more promised, but because she
had received a gift that made the world bright, a home happy
again,--father's promise to drink no more.
"I 've been working to-day as well as you, and you may keep your money
for yourselves. There are shoes for all; and never again, please God,
shall my children be ashamed of me, or want a dinner Christmas Day."
As father said this with a choke in his voice, and mother's head went
down on his shoulder to hide the happy tears that wet her cheeks, the
children did n't know whether to laugh or cry, till Kitty, with the
instinct of a loving heart, settled the question by saying, as she held
out her hands, "We have n't any tree, so let's dance around our goodies
and be merry."
