She watched him as he spoke, and to herself confessed a slavery more
absolute than any he had known, for with a pang she felt that she had
indeed fallen into the snare she spread for him, and in this man, who
dared to own his weakness and her power, she had found a master. Was it
too late to keep him? She knew that soft appeals were vain, tears like
water on a rock, and with the skill that had subdued him once she
endeavored to retrieve her blunder by an equanimity which had more
effect than prayers or protestations. Warwick had read her well, had
shown her herself stripped of all disguises, and left her no defence but
tardy candor. She had the wisdom to see this, the wit to use it and
restore the shadow of the power whose substance she had lost. Leaving
her beauty to its silent work, she fixed on him eyes whose lustre was
quenched in unshed tears, and said with an earnest, humble voice--
"I, too, desire to be just. I will not reproach, defy, or lament, but
leave my fate to you. I am all you say, yet in your judgment remember
mercy, and believe that at twenty-five there is still hope for the noble
but neglected nature, still time to repair the faults of birth,
education, and orphanhood. You say, I have a daring will, a love of
conquest. Can I not will to overcome myself and do it? Can I not learn
to be the woman I have seemed? Love has worked greater miracles, may it
not work this? I have longed to be a truer creature than I am; have seen
my wasted gifts, felt my capacity for better things, and looked for help
from many sources, but never found it till you came. Do you wonder that
I tried to make it mine? Adam, you are a self-elected missionary to the
world's afflicted; you can look beyond external poverty and see the
indigence of souls. I am a pauper in your eyes; stretch out your hand
and save me from myself."
Straight through the one vulnerable point in the man's pride went this
appeal to the man's pity. Indignation could not turn it aside, contempt
blunt its edge, or wounded feeling lessen its force; and yet it failed:
for in Adam Warwick justice was stronger than mercy, reason than
impulse, head than heart. Experience was a teacher whom he trusted; he
had weighed this woman and found her wanting; truth was not in her; the
patient endeavor, the hard-won success so possible to many was hardly so
to her, and a union between them could bring no lasting good to either.
He knew this; had decided it in a calmer hour than the present, and by
that decision he would now abide proof against all attacks from without
or from within. More gently, but as inflexibly as before, he said--
"I do put out my hand and offer you the same bitter draught of
self-contempt that proved a tonic to my own weak will. I can help, pity,
and forgive you heartily, but I dare not marry you. The tie that binds
us is a passion of the senses, not a love of the soul. You lack the
moral sentiment that makes all gifts and graces subservient to the
virtues that render womanhood a thing to honor as well as love. I can
relinquish youth, beauty, worldly advantages, but I must reverence above
all others the woman whom I marry, and feel an affection that elevates
me by quickening all that is noblest and manliest in me. With you I
should be either a tyrant or a slave. I will be neither, but go solitary
all my life rather than rashly mortgage the freedom kept inviolate so
long, or let the impulse of an hour mar the worth of coming years."
