"Don't excite yourself, my dear; it is all very lamentable and
laughable, but we must submit till the world learns better. There are
often excellent young persons among the 'grasshoppers,' and if you cared
to look you might find a pleasant friend here and there," said Mr.
Yule, leaning a little toward his son's view of the matter.
"No, I cannot even do that without being laughed at; for no sooner do I
mention the word friendship than people nod wisely and look as if they
said, 'Oh, yes, every one knows what that sort of thing amounts to.' I
should like a friend, father; some one beyond home, because he would be
newer; a man (old or young, I don't care which), because men go where
they like, see things with their own eyes, and have more to tell if they
choose. I want a person simple, wise, and entertaining; and I think I
should make a very grateful friend if such an one was kind enough to
like me."
"I think you would, and perhaps if you try to be more like others you
will find friends as they do, and so be happy, Sylvia."
"I cannot be like others, and their friendships would not satisfy me. I
don't try to be odd; I long to be quiet and satisfied, but I cannot; and
when I do what Prue calls wild things, it is not because I am
thoughtless or idle, but because I am trying to be good and happy. The
old ways fail, so I attempt new ones, hoping they will succeed; but they
don't, and I still go looking and longing for happiness, yet always
failing to find it, till sometimes I think I am a born disappointment."
"Perhaps love would bring the happiness, my dear?"
"I'm afraid not; but, however that may be, I shall never go running
about for a lover as half my mates do. When the true one comes I shall
know him, love him at once, and cling to him forever, no matter what may
happen. Till then I want a friend, and I will find one if I can. Don't
you believe there may be real and simple friendships between men and
women without falling into this everlasting sea of love?"
Mr. Yule was laughing quietly under cover of the darkness, but composed
himself to answer gravely--
"Yes, for some of the most beautiful and famous friendships have been
such, and I see no reason why there may not be again. Look about,
Sylvia, make yourself happy; and, whether you find friend or lover,
remember there is always the old Papa glad to do his best for you in
both capacities."
Sylvia's hand crept to her father's shoulder, and her voice was full of
daughterly affection, as she said--
"I'll have no lover but 'the old Papa' for a long while yet. But I will
look about, and if I am fortunate enough to find and good enough to keep
the person I want, I shall be very happy; for, father, I really think I
need a friend."
