"There are none but gentlemen in our family, I hope," answered Rose,
with the proud air she always wore when anything was said derogatory to
the name of Campbell.
"Of course, of course. I should have said gentleman of leisure. You see
it is against my principles to slave as Archie does. What's the use?
Don't need the money, got plenty, so why not enjoy it and keep jolly
as long as possible? I'm sure cheerful people are public benefactors in
this world of woe."
It was not easy to object to this proposition, especially when made by
a comely young man who looked the picture of health and happiness as he
sat on the arm of the sofa smiling at his cousin in the most engaging
manner. Rose knew very well that the Epicurean philosophy was not the
true one to begin life upon, but it was difficult to reason with Charlie
because he always dodged sober subjects and was so full of cheery
spirits, one hated to lessen the sort of sunshine which certainly is a
public benefactor.
"You have such a clever way of putting things that I don't know how to
contradict you, though I still think I'm right," she said gravely. "Mac
likes to idle as well as you, but he is not going to do it because he
knows it's bad for him to fritter away his time. He is going to study
a profession like a wise boy, though he would much prefer to live among
his beloved books or ride his hobbies in peace."
"That's all very well for him, because he doesn't care for society and
may as well be studying medicine as philandering about the woods
with his pockets full of musty philosophers and old-fashioned poets,"
answered Charlie with a shrug which plainly expressed his opinion of
Mac.
"I wonder if musty philosophers, like Socrates and Aristotle, and
old-fashioned poets, like Shakespeare and Milton, are not safer company
for him to keep than some of the more modern friends you have?" said
Rose, remembering Jamie's hints about wild oats, for she could be a
little sharp sometimes and had not lectured "the boys" for so long it
seemed unusually pleasant.
But Charlie changed the subject skillfully by exclaiming with an anxious
expression: "I do believe you are going to be like Aunt Jane, for that's
just the way she comes down on me whenever she gets the chance!
Don't take her for a model, I beg she is a good woman but a mighty
disagreeable one in my humble opinion."
The fear of being disagreeable is a great bugbear to a girl, as this
artful young man well knew, and Rose fell into the trap at once, for
Aunt Jane was far from being her model, though she could not help
respecting her worth.
"Have you given up your painting?" she asked rather abruptly, turning to
a gilded Fra Angelico angel which leaned in the sofa corner.
"Sweetest face I ever saw, and very like you about the eyes, isn't
it?" said Charlie, who seemed to have a Yankee trick of replying to one
question with another.
