"Why, Mac!" and Rose sat bolt upright with an astonished face: this
was such an entirely unexpected sort of remark for the philosopher to
make.
Evidently interested in the new discovery, Mac placidly continued,
"Do you know, it seems as if I never really saw a girl before, or had
any idea what agreeable creatures they could be. I fancy you are a
remarkably good specimen, Rose."
"No, indeed! I'm only hearty and happy; and being safe at home again
may make me look better than usual perhaps: but I'm no beauty except
to uncle."
"'Hearty and happy,'--that must be it," echoed Mac, soberly
investigating the problem. "Most girls are sickly or silly, I think I
have observed; and that is probably why I am so struck with you."
"Of all queer boys you are the queerest! Do you really mean that you
don't like or notice girls?" asked Rose, much amused at this new
peculiarity of her studious cousin.
"Well, no: I am only conscious of two sorts,--noisy and quiet ones. I
prefer the latter: but, as a general thing, I don't notice any of them
much more than I do flies, unless they bother me; then I'd like to
flap them away; but, as that won't do, I hide."
Rose leaned back and laughed till her eyes were full: it was so
comical to hear Mac sink his voice to a confidential whisper at the
last words, and see him smile with sinful satisfaction at the memory
of the tormentors he had eluded.
"You needn't laugh: it's a fact, I assure you. Charlie likes the
creatures, and they spoil him; Steve follows suit, of course. Archie
is a respectful slave when he can't help himself. As for me, I don't
often give them a chance; and, when I get caught, I talk science and
dead languages till they run for their lives. Now and then I find a
sensible one, and then we get on excellently."
"A sad prospect for Phebe and me," sighed Rose, trying to keep sober.
"Phebe is evidently a quiet one. I know she is sensible, or you
wouldn't care for her. I can see that she is pleasant to look at, so I
fancy I shall like her. As for you, I helped bring you up; therefore I
am a little anxious to see how you turn out. I was afraid your foreign
polish might spoil you, but I think it has not. In fact, I find you
quite satisfactory so far, if you don't mind my saying it. I don't
quite know what the charm is, though. Must be the power of inward
graces, since you insist that you have no outward ones."
Mac was peering at her with a shrewd smile on his lips, but such a
kindly look behind the glasses, that she found both words and glance
very pleasant, and answered merrily,--
"I am glad you approve of me, and much obliged for your care of my
early youth. I hope to be a credit to you, and depend on your keeping
me straight; for I'm afraid I shall be spoilt among you all."
