    Every aster in my hand
      Goes home laden with a thought."
Rose caught the words and smiled, thinking to herself, "Oh, that's it
he is getting into the sentimental age and Aunt Jane has been lecturing
him. Dear me, how we are growing up!"
"You look as if you didn't like the prospect very well," she said
aloud, for Mac had rammed the volume of Shelley into his pocket and the
glorified expression was so entirely gone, Rose fancied she had been
mistaken about the mountaintop behind the mists.
"Yes, well enough I always thought the profession a grand one, and
where could I find a better teacher than Uncle? I've got into lazy ways
lately, and it is high time I went at something useful, so here I go,"
and Mac abruptly vanished into the study while Rose joined Phebe in Aunt
Plenty's room.
The dear old lady had just decided, after long and earnest discussion,
which of six favorite puddings should be served for dinner, and thus had
a few moments to devote to sentiment, so when Rose came in she held out
her arms, saying fondly: "I shall not feel as if I'd got my child back
again until I have her in my lap a minute. No, you're not a bit too
heavy, my rheumatism doesn't begin much before November, so sit here,
darling, and put your two arms round my neck."
Rose obeyed, and neither spoke for a moment as the old woman held the
young one close and appeased the two years' longing of a motherly heart
by the caresses women give the creatures dearest to them. Right in the
middle of a kiss, however, she stopped suddenly and, holding out one
arm, caught Phebe, who was trying to steal away unobserved.
"Don't go there's room for both in my love, though there isn't in my
lap. I'm so grateful to get my dear girls safely home again that I
hardly know what I'm about," said Aunt Plenty, embracing Phebe so
heartily that she could not feel left out in the cold and stood there
with her black eyes shining through the happiest tears.
"There, now I've had a good hug, and feel as if I was all right again. I
wish you'd set that cap in order, Rose I went to bed in such a hurry,
I pulled the strings off it and left it all in a heap. Phebe, dear, you
shall dust round a mite, just as you used to, for I haven't had anyone
to do it as I like since you've been gone, and it will do me good to see
all my knickknacks straightened out in your tidy way," said the elder
lady, getting up with a refreshed expression on her rosy old face.
"Shall I dust in here too?" asked Phebe, glancing toward an inner room
which used to be her care.
"No, dear, I'd rather do that myself. Go in if you like, nothing is
changed. I must go and see to my pudding." And Aunt Plenty trotted
abruptly away with a quiver of emotion in her voice which made even her
last words pathetic.
