"A true Campbell, bless you!" she said, and shook his hand heartily as
she passed on.
Charlie came next, and here she felt less satisfied, though scarcely
conscious why; for, as she looked, there came a defiant sort of flash,
changing suddenly to something warmer than anger, stronger than pride,
making her shrink a little and say, hastily,--
"I don't find the Charlie I left; but the Prince is there still, I
see."
Turning to Mac with a sense of relief, she gently took off his
"winkers," as Jamie called them, and looked straight into the honest
blue eyes that looked straight back at her, full of a frank and
friendly affection that warmed her heart, and made her own eyes
brighten as she gave back the glasses, saying, with a look and tone of
cordial satisfaction,--
"_You_ are not changed, my dear old Mac; and I'm so glad of that!"
"Now say something extra sweet to me, because I'm the flower of the
family," said Steve, twirling the blonde moustache, which was
evidently the pride of his life.
Rose saw at a glance that Dandy deserved his name more than ever, and
promptly quenched his vanities by answering, with a provoking laugh,--
"Then the name of the flower of the family is Cock's-comb."
"Ah, ha! who's got it now?" jeered Will.
"Let us off easy, please," whispered Geordie, mindful that their turn
came next.
"You blessed beanstalks! I'm proud of you: only don't grow quite out
of sight, or ever be ashamed to look a woman in the face," answered
Rose, with a gentle pat on the cheek of either bashful young giant;
for both were as red as peonies, though their boyish eyes were as
clear and calm as summer lakes.
"Now me!" And Jamie assumed his manliest air, feeling that he did not
appear to advantage among his tall kinsmen. But he went to the head of
the class in every one's opinion when Rose put her arms round him,
saying, with a kiss,--
"You must be my boy now; for all the others are too old, and I want a
faithful little page to do my errands for me."
"I will, I will! and I'll marry you too, if you'll just hold on till I
grow up!" cried Jamie, rather losing his head at this sudden
promotion.
"Bless the baby, what is he talking about?" laughed Rose, looking down
at her little knight, as he clung about her with grateful ardor.
"Oh, I heard the aunts say that you'd better marry one of us, and
keep the property in the family; so I speak first, because you are
very fond of me, and I _do_ love curls."
Alas for Jamie! this awful speech had hardly left his innocent lips
when Will and Geordie swept him out of the room like a whirlwind; and
the howls of that hapless boy were heard from the torture-hall, where
being shut into the skeleton-case was one of the mildest punishments
inflicted upon him.
