"A sad prospect for Phebe and me," sighed Rose, trying to keep sober.
"Phebe is evidently a quiet one. I know she is sensible, or you wouldn't
care for her. I can see that she is pleasant to look at, so I fancy
I shall like her. As for you, I helped bring you up, therefore I am a
little anxious to see how you turn out. I was afraid your foreign polish
might spoil you, but I think it has not. In fact, I find you quite
satisfactory so far, if you don't mind my saying it. I don't quite know
what the charm is, though. Must be the power of inward graces, since you
insist that you have no outer ones."
Mac was peering at her with a shrewd smile on his lips, but such a
kindly look behind the glasses that she found both words and glance very
pleasant and answered merrily, "I am glad you approve of me, and much
obliged for your care of my early youth. I hope to be a credit to you
and depend on your keeping me straight, for I'm afraid I shall be spoilt
among you all."
"I'll keep my eye on you upon one condition," replied the youthful
mentor.
"Name it."
"If you are going to have a lot of lovers around, I wash my hands of
you. If not, I'm your man."
"You must be sheep dog and help keep them away, for I don't want any yet
awhile and, between ourselves, I don't believe I shall have any if it is
known that I am strong-minded. That fact will scare most men away like a
yellow flag," said Rose, for, thanks to Dr. Alec's guardianship, she had
wasted neither heart nor time in the foolish flirtations so many girls
fritter away their youth upon.
"Hum! I rather doubt that," muttered Mac as he surveyed the damsel
before him.
She certainly did not look unpleasantly strong-minded, and she was
beautiful in spite of her modest denials. Beautiful with the truest sort
of beauty, for nobility of character lent its subtle charm to the bloom
of youth, the freshness of health, the innocence of a nature whose sweet
maidenliness Mac felt but could not describe. Gentle yet full of spirit,
and all aglow with the earnestness that suggests lovely possibilities
and makes one hope that such human flowers may have heaven's purest air
and warmest sunshine to blossom in.
"Wait and see," answered Rose; then, as her uncle's voice was heard in
the hall, she held out her hand, adding pleasantly, "The old times are
to begin again, so come soon and tell me all your doings and help me
with mine just as you used to do."
"You really mean it?" And Mac looked much pleased.
"I really do. You are so little altered, except to grow big, that I
don't feel at all strange with you and want to begin where we left off."
"That will be capital. Good night, Cousin," and to her great amazement,
he gave her a hearty kiss.
