Not a pleasant one, but he bore it as well as he could, and when his
mates left him stranded in a corner, he said, half aloud, with a long
breath, as if the battle had been a hard one,--
"Yes, I suppose I _have_ lost my best patient, but I've kept my own
respect, and that ought to satisfy me."
"Let me add mine, and wish you health and happiness, dear Phil," said a
voice behind him, and turning quickly he saw Pris standing there with
two goblets of water, and a smile full of love and pride.
"You know what that toast means for me?" he whispered, with sudden
sunshine in his face, as he took the offered glass.
"Yes; and I drink it with all my heart," she answered, with her hand in
his.
CHAPTER VI.
_HOW IT ENDED._
The leaven dropped by three girls in that little town worked so slowly
that they hardly expected to do more than "raise their own patty-cakes,"
as Polly merrily expressed it. But no honest purpose is ever wasted, and
by-and-by the fermentation began.
Several things helped it amazingly. The first of these was a temperance
sermon, preached by Parson Snow, which produced a deep impression,
because in doing this he had the courage, like Brutus, to condemn his
own son. The brave sincerity, the tender earnestness of that sermon,
touched the hearts of his people as no learned discourse had ever done,
and bore fruit that well repaid him for the effort it cost.
It waked up the old people, set the young ones to thinking, and showed
them all that they had a work to do. For those who were down felt that
they might be lifted up again, those who were trifling ignorantly or
recklessly with temptation saw their danger, and those who had longed to
speak out now dared to do it because he led the way.
So, warned by the wolf in his own fold, this shepherd of souls tried to
keep his flock from harm, and, in doing it, found that his Christianity
was the stronger, wiser, and purer for his humanity.
Another thing was the fact that the Judge was the first to follow his
pastor's example, and prove by deeds that he indorsed his words. It was
hard for the hospitable old gentleman to banish wine from his table, and
forego the pleasant customs which long usage and many associations
endeared to him; but he made his sacrifice handsomely, and his daughter
helped him.
She kept the side-board from looking bare by filling the silver tankards
with flowers, offered water to his guests with a grace that made a
cordial of it, and showed such love and honor for her father that he was
a very proud and happy man.
What the Judge did was considered "all right" by his neighbors, for he
was not only the best-born, but the richest man in town, and with a
certain class these facts had great weight. Portia knew this, and
counted on it when she said she wanted him on her side; so she exulted
when others followed the new fashion, some from principle, but many
simply because he set it.
