Polly thought he was asleep, and sat quietly rolling bandages till a
head popped in at the door, and Will asked, in a sepulchral whisper,--
"I've got the book Ned wanted. Can I come and give it to you?"
Polly nodded, and he tiptoed in to her side, with a face so full of
good-will and spirits that it was as refreshing as a breath of fresh air
in that sick room.
"Nice boy! he never forgets to do a kindness and be a comfort to his
Polly," she said, leaning her tired head on his buttony jacket, as he
stood beside her.
Will wasn't ashamed to show affection for "his Polly," so he patted the
pale cheeks with a hand as red as his mittens, and smiled down at her
with his honest blue eyes full of the protecting affection it was so
pleasant to receive.
"Yes, _I'm_ going to be a tiptop boy, and never make you and father
ashamed of me, as you were once of somebody we know. Now don't you
laugh, and I'll show you something; it's the best I could do, and I
wanted to prove that I mean what I say; truly, truly, wish I may die if
I don't."
As he spoke, Will pulled out of his vest-pocket a little pewter
cream-pot, tied to a shoe-string, and holding it up said, with a funny
mixture of boyish dignity and defiance,--
"I bought it of Nelly Hunt, because her tea-set was half-smashed up.
Folks may laugh at my badge, but I don't care; and if you won't have me
in your society I'll set up all alone, for I'm going into the temperance
business, any way!"
Polly hugged him on the spot, and made his youthful countenance glow
with honest pride by saying solemnly,--
"William G. Snow, I consider our league honored by the addition of so
valuable a member; for a boy who can bear to be laughed at, and yet
stick to his principles, is a treasure."
"The fellows _do_ laugh at me, and call me 'Little Pitcher;' but I'd
rather be that than 'Champagne Charlie,' as Ned called Mr. Lord," said
Will, stoutly.
"Bless the little pitchers!" cried Polly, enthusiastically surveying
both the pewter pot and its wearer.
A great tear was lying on her cheek, checked in its fall by the dimple
that came as she looked at her brother's droll badge. Will caught it
dexterously in the tiny cup, saying, with a stifled laugh,--
"Now you've baptized it, Polly, and it's as good as silver; for your
tear shines in there like a great big diamond. Wonder how many it would
take to fill it?"
"You'll never make me cry enough to find out. Now go and get my little
silver chain, for that dear pewter pot deserves a better one than an old
shoe-string," said Polly, looking after him with a happy face, as the
small youth gave one ecstatic skip and was off.
"I'm afraid we've waked you up," she added, as Ned stirred.
