Ned began to whistle, and was going off without a word, when Polly's
loving heart got the better of her quick temper, and, catching up a
splendid tippet she had made for him, she ran after her brother. She
caught him just as he opened the front door, and, throwing both her arms
and her gift about his neck, said, with a kiss that produced a sensation
in the sleigh-full of gentlemen at the gate,--
"Ah, do be friends, for I can't bear to part so."
Now if no one had been by, Ned would have found that pleasant mingling
of soft arms and worsted a genuine comforter; but masculine pride would
not permit him to relent before witnesses, and the fear of being laughed
at by "those fellows" made him put both sister and gift roughly aside,
with a stern,--
"I won't be molly-coddled! Let me alone and shut the door!"
Polly did let him alone, with a look that haunted him, and shut the door
with a spirited bang, that much amused the gentlemen.
"I'll never try to do any thing for Ned again! It's no use, and he may
go to the bad for all I care!" said Polly to herself, after a good cry.
But she bitterly repented that speech a few hours later, when her
brother was brought back, apparently dead, by such of the "cheerful"
party as escaped unhurt from a dangerous upset.
There was no concealing this sad home-coming from her father, though
poor Ned was quiet enough now, being stunned by the fall, which had
wounded his head and broken his right arm.
It _was_ a shock, both to the man and the minister; and, when the worst
was over, he left Polly to watch her brother, with eyes full of
penitential tears, and went away, to reproach himself in private for
devoting to ancient Fathers the time and thought he should have given to
modern sons.
Ned was very ill, and when, at last, he began to mend, his helplessness
taught him to see and love the sweetest side of Polly's character; for
she was in truth his right hand, and waited on him with a zeal that
touched his heart.
Not one reproach did she utter, not even by a look did she recall past
warnings, or exult in the present humiliation, which proved how needful
they had been. Every thing was forgotten except the fact that she had
the happy privilege of caring for him almost as tenderly as a mother.
Not quite, though, and the memory of her whose place it was impossible
to fill seemed to draw them closer together; as if the silent voice
repeated its last injunctions to both son and daughter, "Take care of
the boys, dear;" "Be good to your sister, Ned."
"I've been a regular brute to her, and the dear little soul is heaping
coals of fire on my head by slaving over me like an angel," thought the
remorseful invalid, one day, as he lay on the sofa, with a black patch
adorning his brow, and his arm neatly done up in splints.
