CHAPTER III.
_WHAT PORTIA DID._
"I know your head aches, mamma, so lie here and rest while I sit in my
little chair and amuse you till papa comes in."
As Portia bent to arrange the sofa-cushions comfortably, the tiny silver
pitcher hanging at her neck swung forward and caught her mother's eye.
"Is it the latest fashion to wear odd ear-rings instead of lockets?" she
asked, touching the delicate trinket with an amused smile.
"No, mamma, it is something better than a fashion; it is the badge of a
temperance league that Pris, Polly, and I have lately made," answered
Portia, wondering how her mother would take it.
"Dear little girls! God bless and help you in your good work!" was the
quick reply, that both surprised and touched her by its fervency.
"Then you don't mind, or think us silly to try and do even a very little
towards curing this great evil?" she asked, with a sweet seriousness
that was new and most becoming to her.
"My child, I feel as if it was a special providence," began her mother,
then checked herself and added more quietly, "Tell me all about this
league, dear, unless it is a secret."
"I have no secrets from you, mother," and nestling into her low chair
Portia told her story, ending with an earnestness that showed how much
she had the new plan at heart.
"So you see Polly is trying to keep Ned safe, and Pris prays for Phil;
not in vain, I think, for he has been very good lately, they tell me.
But _I_ have neither brother nor lover to help, and I cannot go out to
find any one, because I am only a girl. Now what _can_ I do, mamma, for
I truly want to do my share?"
The mother lay silent for a moment, then, as if yielding to an
irresistible impulse, drew her daughter nearer, and whispered with lips
that trembled as they spoke,--
"You can help your father, dear."
"Mamma, what can you mean?" cried Portia, in a tone of indignant
surprise.
"Listen patiently, child, or I shall regret that your confidence
inspired me with courage to give you mine. Never think for one moment
that I accuse my husband of any thing like drunkenness. He has always
taken his wine like a gentleman, and never more than was good for him
till of late. For this there are many excuses; he is growing old, his
life is less active than it was, many of the pleasures he once enjoyed
fail now, and he has fallen into ways that harm his health."
"I know, mamma; he doesn't care for company as he used to, or business,
either, but seems quite contented to sit among his papers half the
morning, and doze over the fire half the evening. I've wondered at it,
for he is not really old, and looks as hale and handsome as ever," said
Portia, feeling that something hovered on her mother's lips which she
found it hard to utter.
