"Presently he came creeping up to the back door, and I heard him try the
latch. All was fast, so I just slipped into the kitchen and stood
behind the settle, for I was surer than ever he was a rascal since I'd
seen him nearer. He was a tall man, dreadful shabby in an old coat and
boots, a ragged hat over his eyes, and a great beard hiding the lower
part of his face. He had a little bundle and a big stick in his hands,
and limped as if foot-sore or lame.
"I was much afeard; but those were times that made heroes of men, and
taught women to be brave for love of home and country. So I kept steady,
with my eye on the window, and my finger on the trigger of the old gun,
that hadn't been fired for years. Presently the man looked in, and I saw
what a strange roll his great eyes had, for he was thin-faced and looked
half-starved. If mother had been there, she'd have called him in and fed
him well, but I dared not, and when he tried the window I aimed, but did
not fire; for finding the button down he went away, and I dropped on the
settle, shaking like a leaf. All was still, and in a minute I plucked up
courage to go to look out a bit; but just as I reached the middle of the
kitchen, the buttery door opened, and there stood the robber, with a
carving knife in one hand and my best loaf of spice bread in the other.
He said something, and made a rush at me; but I pulled the trigger, saw
a flash, felt a blow, and fell somewhere, thinking, 'Now I'm dead!'"
Here grandma paused for breath, having spoken rapidly and acted out the
scene dramatically, to the intense delight of the children, who sat like
images of interest, staring at her with round eyes.
"But you weren't dead? What next?" cried Walt, eagerly.
"Bless you, no! I only fell into Joe's arms, and when I came to, there
the dear fellow was, crying over me like a baby, while old Sally danced
round us like a bedlamite, in spite of her rheumatics, shouting:
'Hosanna! Thanks and praise! He's come, he's come!'"
"Was he shot?" asked Geoff, anxious for a little bloodshed.
"No, dear; the old gun burst and hurt my hands, but not a mite of harm
was done to Joe. I don't think I could tell all that happened for a
spell, being quite dazed with joy and surprise; but by the time mother
came home I was as peart as a wren, and Joe was at the table eating and
drinking every mortal thing I could find in the house.
"He'd been kept a prisoner till exchanged, and had had a hard time
getting home, with little money and a bad wound in the leg, besides
being feeble with jail fever. But we didn't fret over past troubles,
being so glad to get him back. How my blessed mother did laugh, when we
told her the reception I gave the poor lad! But I said it served him
right, since he came sneaking home like a thief, instead of marching in
like a hero. Then he owned that he came there to get something to eat,
being ashamed to go in upon his mother with all her company about her.
So we fed and comforted him; and when we'd got our wits about us, I
whipped away to Mrs. Shirley's and told my news, and every one of those
twenty-five women went straight over to our house and burst in upon
poor Joe, as he lay resting on the settle. That was my revenge for the
scare he gave me, and a fine one it was; for the women chattered over
him like a flock of magpies, and I sat in the corner and laughed at him.
Ah, I was a sad puss in those days!"
