"He is dead. I don't want him. I will sell him to some one to stuff."
"No; his heart beats a little. Leave him here a few days, and we will
take care of him; and if he gets well, perhaps we will buy him," said
Aunt Jane, who liked to nurse even a sick monkey.
The man said he was going on for a week through the towns near by, and
would call and see about it when he came back. Then he went away; and
Neddy and aunty put Jocko in a nice basket, and carried him in. The
minute the door was shut and he felt safe, the sly fellow peeped out
with one eye, and seeing only the kind little boy began to chatter and
kick off the shawl; for he was not much hurt, only tired and hungry, and
dreadfully afraid of the cruel man who beat and starved him.
Neddy was delighted, and thought it very funny, and helped his aunt take
off the stiff collar and put some salve on the sore neck. Then they got
milk and cake; and when he had eaten a good dinner, Jocko curled himself
up and slept till the next day. He was quite lively in the morning;
for when Aunt Jane went to call Neddy, Jocko was not in his basket, and
looking round the room for him, she saw the little black thing lying on
the boy's pillow, with his arm round Neddy's neck like a queer baby.
"My patience! I can't allow that," said the old lady, and went to pull
Jocko out. But he slipped away like an eel, and crept chattering and
burrowing down to the bottom of the bed, holding on to Neddy's toes,
till he waked up, howling that crabs were nipping him.
Then they had a great frolic; and Jocko climbed all over the bed, up on
the tall wardrobe, and the shelf over the door, where the image of an
angel stood. He patted it, and hugged it, and looked so very funny with
his ugly black face by the pretty white one, that Neddy rolled on the
floor, and Aunt Jane laughed till her glasses flew off. By and by he
came down, and had a nice breakfast, and let them tie a red ribbon over
the bandage on his neck. He liked the gay color, and kept going to look
in the glass, and grin and chatter at his own image, which he evidently
admired.
"Now, he shall go to walk with me, and all the children shall see my new
pet," said Neddy, as he marched off with Jock on his shoulder.
Every one laughed at the funny little fellow with his twinkling eyes,
brown hands, and long tail, and Neddy felt very grand till they got to
the store; then troubles began. He put Jocko on a table near the door,
and told him to stay there while he did his errands. Now, close by was
the place where the candy was kept, and Jocko loved sweeties like any
girl; so he hopped along, and began to eat whatever he liked. Some boys
tried to stop him; and then he got angry at them for pulling his tail,
and threw handfuls of sugarplums at them. That was great fun; and the
more they laughed and scrambled and poked at him, the faster he showered
chocolates, caramels, and peppermints over them, till it looked as if
it had rained candy. The man was busy with Neddy at the other end of the
store; but when he heard the noise, both ran to see what was the matter.
Neither of them could stop naughty Jocko, who liked this game, and ran
up on the high shelves among the toys. Then down came little tubs and
dolls' stoves, tin trumpets and cradles, while boxes of leaden soldiers
and whole villages flew through the air, smash, bang, rattle, bump,
all over the floor. The man scolded, Neddy cried, the boys shouted, and
there was a lively time in that shop till a good slapping with a long
stick made Jock tumble into a tub of water where some curious fishes
lived, and then they caught him.
