"Sit quietly down somewhere and wait till he is tired; then he will come
to you, and you can hold him fast," said Aunt Jane.
So Neddy waited; and though he was much worried at his new pet's
naughtiness, he enjoyed his pranks like a boy.
Grandpa took naps in the afternoon on the piazza, and he was dozing
comfortably when Jocko swung down from the grape-vine by his long tail,
and tickled the old gentleman on the nose with a straw. Grandpa sneezed,
and opened one eye to brush away the fly as he supposed. Then he went to
sleep again, and Jocko dropped a caterpillar on his bald head; this made
him open the other eye to see what that soft, creepy thing could be.
Neddy couldn't help laughing, for he often wanted to do just such
things, but never dared, because grandpa was a very stern old gentleman,
and no one took liberties with him. Jocko wasn't afraid, however; and
presently he crept to the table, stole the glasses lying there, put them
on, and taking up the paper held it before him, chattering as if he were
reading it, as he had seen people do. Neddy laughed out loud at this,
and clapped his hands, Jocko looked so like a little old man, in spite
of the tail curled up behind. This time grandpa opened both eyes at
once, and stared as if he saw a hobgoblin before him; then he snatched
off the spectacles, and caught up his cane, crying angrily,--
"You rascal, how dare you!"
But Jocko tossed the paper in his face, and with one jump lighted on
the back of old Tom, the big yellow cat, who lay asleep close by. Scared
half out of his wits, Tom spit and bounced; but Jocko held fast to his
collar, and had a fine race round the garden, while the girls laughed
at the funny sight, and Neddy shouted, "It's a circus; and there's the
monkey and the pony." Even grandpa smiled, especially when puss dashed
up a tree, and Jock tumbled off. He chased him, and they had a great
battle; but Tom's claws were sharp, and the monkey got a scratch on the
nose, and ran crying to Neddy for comfort.
"Now, you naughty fellow, I'll chain you up, and stop these dreadful
tricks. But you are great fun, and I can't whip you," said the boy; for
he knew what it was to enjoy a holiday, and poor Jocko had not had one
for a long time.
Jocko ate some lunch, took a nap in the grass, and then was ready for
more frolics. Neddy had fastened him to a tree in the garden, so that
he could enjoy the sun and air, and catch grasshoppers if he liked. But
Jocko wanted something more; and presently Neddy, who was reading in his
hammock on the piazza, heard a great cackling among the hens, and looked
up to see the monkey swinging by his tail from a bough, holding the
great cock-a-doodle by his splendid tail, while all the twenty hens
clucked and cackled with wrath and fear at such a dreadful prank.
