CHRISTIE AS QUEEN OF THE AMAZONS.
Princess Caremfil swept away, and the Amazonian queen climbed to her
perch among the painted mountains, where her troop already sat like
a flock of pigeons shining in the sun. The gilded breast-plate rose
and fell with the quick beating of her heart, the spear shook with
the trembling of her hand, her lips were dry, her head dizzy, and
more than once, as she waited for her cue, she was sorely tempted to
run away and take the consequences.
But the thought of Lucy's good-will and confidence kept her, and
when the cry came she answered with a ringing shout, rushed down the
ten-foot precipice, and charged upon the foe with an energy that
inspired her followers, and quite satisfied the princess struggling
in the demon's grasp.
With clashing of arms and shrill war-cries the rescuers of innocence
assailed the sooty fiends who fell before their unscientific blows
with a rapidity which inspired in the minds of beholders a suspicion
that the goblins' own voluminous tails tripped them up and gallantry
kept them prostrate. As the last groan expired, the last agonized
squirm subsided, the conquerors performed the intricate dance with
which it appears the Amazons were wont to celebrate their victories.
Then the scene closed with a glare of red light and a "grand
tableau" of the martial queen standing in a bower of lances, the
rescued princess gracefully fainting in her arms, and the vanquished
demon scowling fiercely under her foot, while four-and-twenty
dishevelled damsels sang a song of exultation, to the barbaric music
of a tattoo on their shields.
All went well that night, and when at last the girls doffed crown
and helmet, they confided to one another the firm opinion that the
success of the piece was in a great measure owing to their talent,
their exertions, and went gaily home predicting for themselves
careers as brilliant as those of Siddons and Rachel.
It would be a pleasant task to paint the vicissitudes and victories
of a successful actress; but Christie was no dramatic genius born to
shine before the world and leave a name behind her. She had no
talent except that which may be developed in any girl possessing the
lively fancy, sympathetic nature, and ambitious spirit which make
such girls naturally dramatic. This was to be only one of many
experiences which were to show her her own weakness and strength,
and through effort, pain, and disappointment fit her to play a
nobler part on a wider stage.
For a few weeks Christie's illusions lasted; then she discovered
that the new life was nearly as humdrum as the old, that her
companions were ordinary men and women, and her bright hopes were
growing as dim as her tarnished shield. She grew unutterably weary
of "The Castle of the Sun," and found the "Demon's Daughter" an
unmitigated bore. She was not tired of the profession, only
dissatisfied with the place she held in it, and eager to attempt a
part that gave some scope for power and passion.
