In the later analysis of language, we trace the opposite and contrasted
elements of the individual and nation, of the past and present, of
the inward and outward, of the subject and object, of the notional
and relational, of the root or unchanging part of the word and of the
changing inflexion, if such a distinction be admitted, of the vowel and
the consonant, of quantity and accent, of speech and writing, of poetry
and prose. We observe also the reciprocal influence of sounds and
conceptions on each other, like the connexion of body and mind; and
further remark that although the names of objects were originally proper
names, as the grammarian or logician might call them, yet at a later
stage they become universal notions, which combine into particulars and
individuals, and are taken out of the first rude agglomeration of sounds
that they may be replaced in a higher and more logical order. We see
that in the simplest sentences are contained grammar and logic--the
parts of speech, the Eleatic philosophy and the Kantian categories. So
complex is language, and so expressive not only of the meanest wants of
man, but of his highest thoughts; so various are the aspects in which it
is regarded by us. Then again, when we follow the history of languages,
we observe that they are always slowly moving, half dead, half alive,
half solid, half fluid; the breath of a moment, yet like the air,
continuous in all ages and countries,--like the glacier, too, containing
within them a trickling stream which deposits debris of the rocks over
which it passes. There were happy moments, as we may conjecture, in the
lives of nations, at which they came to the birth--as in the golden age
of literature, the man and the time seem to conspire; the eloquence of
the bard or chief, as in later times the creations of the great writer
who is the expression of his age, became impressed on the minds of
their countrymen, perhaps in the hour of some crisis of national
development--a migration, a conquest, or the like. The picture of the
word which was beginning to be lost, is now revived; the sound again
echoes to the sense; men find themselves capable not only of expressing
more feelings, and describing more objects, but of expressing and
describing them better. The world before the flood, that is to say, the
world of ten, twenty, a hundred thousand years ago, has passed away and
left no sign. But the best conception that we can form of it, though
imperfect and uncertain, is gained from the analogy of causes still in
action, some powerful and sudden, others working slowly in the course of
infinite ages. Something too may be allowed to 'the persistency of the
strongest,' to 'the survival of the fittest,' in this as in the other
realms of nature.
These are some of the reflections which the modern philosophy of
language suggests to us about the powers of the human mind and the
forces and influences by which the efforts of men to utter articulate
sounds were inspired. Yet in making these and similar generalizations
we may note also dangers to which we are exposed. (1) There is the
confusion of ideas with facts--of mere possibilities, and generalities,
and modes of conception with actual and definite knowledge. The words
'evolution,' 'birth,' 'law,' development,' 'instinct,' 'implicit,'
'explicit,' and the like, have a false clearness or comprehensiveness,
which adds nothing to our knowledge. The metaphor of a flower or a tree,
or some other work of nature or art, is often in like manner only a
pleasing picture. (2) There is the fallacy of resolving the languages
which we know into their parts, and then imagining that we can discover
the nature of language by reconstructing them. (3) There is the danger
of identifying language, not with thoughts but with ideas. (4) There is
the error of supposing that the analysis of grammar and logic has always
existed, or that their distinctions were familiar to Socrates and Plato.
(5) There is the fallacy of exaggerating, and also of diminishing the
interval which separates articulate from inarticulate language--the
cries of animals from the speech of man--the instincts of animals from
the reason of man. (6) There is the danger which besets all enquiries
into the early history of man--of interpreting the past by the present,
and of substituting the definite and intelligible for the true but dim
outline which is the horizon of human knowledge.
