'A very poor etymology.' Yes; but you must remember that all language is
in process of change; letters are taken in and put out for the sake of
euphony, and time is also a great alterer of words. For example, what
business has the letter rho in the word katoptron, or the letter sigma
in the word sphigx? The additions are often such that it is impossible
to make out the original word; and yet, if you may put in and pull out,
as you like, any name is equally good for any object. The fact is, that
great dictators of literature like yourself should observe the rules of
moderation. 'I will do my best.' But do not be too much of a precisian,
or you will paralyze me. If you will let me add mechane, apo tou mekous,
which means polu, and anein, I shall be at the summit of my powers, from
which elevation I will examine the two words kakia and arete. The first
is easily explained in accordance with what has preceded; for all things
being in a flux, kakia is to kakos ion. This derivation is illustrated
by the word deilia, which ought to have come after andreia, and may
be regarded as o lian desmos tes psuches, just as aporia signifies an
impediment to motion (from alpha not, and poreuesthai to go), and arete
is euporia, which is the opposite of this--the everflowing (aei reousa
or aeireite), or the eligible, quasi airete. You will think that I am
inventing, but I say that if kakia is right, then arete is also right.
But what is kakon? That is a very obscure word, to which I can only
apply my old notion and declare that kakon is a foreign word. Next, let
us proceed to kalon, aischron. The latter is doubtless contracted from
aeischoroun, quasi aei ischon roun. The inventor of words being a patron
of the flux, was a great enemy to stagnation. Kalon is to kaloun ta
pragmata--this is mind (nous or dianoia); which is also the principle of
beauty; and which doing the works of beauty, is therefore rightly
called the beautiful. The meaning of sumpheron is explained by previous
examples;--like episteme, signifying that the soul moves in harmony with
the world (sumphora, sumpheronta). Kerdos is to pasi kerannumenon--that
which mingles with all things: lusiteloun is equivalent to to tes phoras
luon to telos, and is not to be taken in the vulgar sense of gainful,
but rather in that of swift, being the principle which makes motion
immortal and unceasing; ophelimon is apo tou ophellein--that which gives
increase: this word, which is Homeric, is of foreign origin. Blaberon is
to blamton or boulomenon aptein tou rou--that which injures or seeks to
bind the stream. The proper word would be boulapteroun, but this is too
much of a mouthful--like a prelude on the flute in honour of Athene. The
word zemiodes is difficult; great changes, as I was saying, have been
made in words, and even a small change will alter their meaning very
much. The word deon is one of these disguised words. You know that
according to the old pronunciation, which is especially affected by the
women, who are great conservatives, iota and delta were used where we
should now use eta and zeta: for example, what we now call emera was
formerly called imera; and this shows the meaning of the word to
have been 'the desired one coming after night,' and not, as is often
supposed, 'that which makes things gentle' (emera). So again, zugon is
duogon, quasi desis duein eis agogen--(the binding of two together for
the purpose of drawing.) Deon, as ordinarily written, has an evil sense,
signifying the chain (desmos) or hindrance of motion; but in its ancient
form dion is expressive of good, quasi diion, that which penetrates
or goes through all. Zemiodes is really demiodes, and means that which
binds motion (dounti to ion): edone is e pros ten onrsin teinousa
praxis--the delta is an insertion: lupe is derived apo tes dialuseos tou
somatos: ania is from alpha and ienai, to go: algedon is a foreign word,
and is so called apo tou algeinou: odune is apo tes enduseos tes lupes:
achthedon is in its very sound a burden: chapa expresses the flow
of soul: terpsis is apo tou terpnou, and terpnon is properly erpnon,
because the sensation of pleasure is likened to a breath (pnoe) which
creeps (erpei) through the soul: euphrosune is named from pheresthai,
because the soul moves in harmony with nature: epithumia is e epi ton
thumon iousa dunamis: thumos is apo tes thuseos tes psuches: imeros--oti
eimenos pei e psuche: pothos, the desire which is in another place,
allothi pou: eros was anciently esros, and so called because it flows
into (esrei) the soul from without: doxa is e dioxis tou eidenai, or
expresses the shooting from a bow (toxon). The latter etymology is
confirmed by the words boulesthai, boule, aboulia, which all have to do
with shooting (bole): and similarly oiesis is nothing but the movement
(oisis) of the soul towards essence. Ekousion is to eikon--the
yielding--anagke is e an agke iousa, the passage through ravines which
impede motion: aletheia is theia ale, divine motion. Pseudos is the
opposite of this, implying the principle of constraint and forced
repose, which is expressed under the figure of sleep, to eudon; the psi
is an addition. Onoma, a name, affirms the real existence of that which
is sought after--on ou masma estin. On and ousia are only ion with an
iota broken off; and ouk on is ouk ion. 'And what are ion, reon, doun?'
One way of explaining them has been already suggested--they may be of
foreign origin; and possibly this is the true answer. But mere antiquity
may often prevent our recognizing words, after all the complications
which they have undergone; and we must remember that however far we
carry back our analysis some ultimate elements or roots will remain
which can be no further analyzed. For example; the word agathos was
supposed by us to be a compound of agastos and thoos, and probably thoos
may be further resolvable. But if we take a word of which no further
resolution seems attainable, we may fairly conclude that we have reached
one of these original elements, and the truth of such a word must be
tested by some new method. Will you help me in the search?
