And so of private individuals--to them, too, the world occasionally
speaks of the consequences of their actions:--if they are lovers of
pleasure, they will ruin their health; if they are false or dishonest,
they will lose their character. But Socrates would speak to them, not of
what will be, but of what is--of the present consequence of lowering
and degrading the soul. And all higher natures, or perhaps all men
everywhere, if they were not tempted by interest or passion, would agree
with him--they would rather be the victims than the perpetrators of
an act of treachery or of tyranny. Reason tells them that death comes
sooner or later to all, and is not so great an evil as an unworthy life,
or rather, if rightly regarded, not an evil at all, but to a good man
the greatest good. For in all of us there are slumbering ideals of truth
and right, which may at any time awaken and develop a new life in us.
Second Thesis:--
It is better to suffer for wrong doing than not to suffer.
There might have been a condition of human life in which the penalty
followed at once, and was proportioned to the offence. Moral evil would
then be scarcely distinguishable from physical; mankind would avoid vice
as they avoid pain or death. But nature, with a view of deepening and
enlarging our characters, has for the most part hidden from us the
consequences of our actions, and we can only foresee them by an effort
of reflection. To awaken in us this habit of reflection is the business
of early education, which is continued in maturer years by observation
and experience. The spoilt child is in later life said to be
unfortunate--he had better have suffered when he was young, and been
saved from suffering afterwards. But is not the sovereign equally
unfortunate whose education and manner of life are always concealing
from him the consequences of his own actions, until at length they are
revealed to him in some terrible downfall, which may, perhaps, have been
caused not by his own fault? Another illustration is afforded by the
pauper and criminal classes, who scarcely reflect at all, except on the
means by which they can compass their immediate ends. We pity them, and
make allowances for them; but we do not consider that the same principle
applies to human actions generally. Not to have been found out in some
dishonesty or folly, regarded from a moral or religious point of view,
is the greatest of misfortunes. The success of our evil doings is a
proof that the gods have ceased to strive with us, and have given
us over to ourselves. There is nothing to remind us of our sins, and
therefore nothing to correct them. Like our sorrows, they are healed by
time;
     'While rank corruption, mining all within,
     Infects unseen.'
The 'accustomed irony' of Socrates adds a corollary to the
argument:--'Would you punish your enemy, you should allow him to escape
unpunished'--this is the true retaliation. (Compare the obscure verse of
Proverbs, 'Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him,' etc., quoted in
Romans.)
