Callicles answers, that Gorgias was overthrown because, as Polus said,
in compliance with popular prejudice he had admitted that if his pupil
did not know justice the rhetorician must teach him; and Polus has been
similarly entangled, because his modesty led him to admit that to suffer
is more honourable than to do injustice. By custom 'yes,' but not by
nature, says Callicles. And Socrates is always playing between the two
points of view, and putting one in the place of the other. In this
very argument, what Polus only meant in a conventional sense has
been affirmed by him to be a law of nature. For convention says that
'injustice is dishonourable,' but nature says that 'might is right.'
And we are always taming down the nobler spirits among us to the
conventional level. But sometimes a great man will rise up and reassert
his original rights, trampling under foot all our formularies, and then
the light of natural justice shines forth. Pindar says, 'Law, the
king of all, does violence with high hand;' as is indeed proved by the
example of Heracles, who drove off the oxen of Geryon and never paid for
them.
This is the truth, Socrates, as you will be convinced, if you leave
philosophy and pass on to the real business of life. A little philosophy
is an excellent thing; too much is the ruin of a man. He who has not
'passed his metaphysics' before he has grown up to manhood will never
know the world. Philosophers are ridiculous when they take to politics,
and I dare say that politicians are equally ridiculous when they take to
philosophy: 'Every man,' as Euripides says, 'is fondest of that in which
he is best.' Philosophy is graceful in youth, like the lisp of infancy,
and should be cultivated as a part of education; but when a grown-up man
lisps or studies philosophy, I should like to beat him. None of those
over-refined natures ever come to any good; they avoid the busy haunts
of men, and skulk in corners, whispering to a few admiring youths, and
never giving utterance to any noble sentiments.
For you, Socrates, I have a regard, and therefore I say to you,
as Zethus says to Amphion in the play, that you have 'a noble soul
disguised in a puerile exterior.' And I would have you consider the
danger which you and other philosophers incur. For you would not know
how to defend yourself if any one accused you in a law-court,--there you
would stand, with gaping mouth and dizzy brain, and might be murdered,
robbed, boxed on the ears with impunity. Take my advice, then, and get a
little common sense; leave to others these frivolities; walk in the ways
of the wealthy and be wise.
Socrates professes to have found in Callicles the philosopher's
touchstone; and he is certain that any opinion in which they both agree
must be the very truth. Callicles has all the three qualities which are
needed in a critic--knowledge, good-will, frankness; Gorgias and Polus,
although learned men, were too modest, and their modesty made them
contradict themselves. But Callicles is well-educated; and he is not
too modest to speak out (of this he has already given proof), and his
good-will is shown both by his own profession and by his giving the same
caution against philosophy to Socrates, which Socrates remembers hearing
him give long ago to his own clique of friends. He will pledge himself
to retract any error into which he may have fallen, and which Callicles
may point out. But he would like to know first of all what he and Pindar
mean by natural justice. Do they suppose that the rule of justice is the
rule of the stronger or of the better?' 'There is no difference.' Then
are not the many superior to the one, and the opinions of the many
better? And their opinion is that justice is equality, and that to do is
more dishonourable than to suffer wrong. And as they are the superior or
stronger, this opinion of theirs must be in accordance with natural as
well as conventional justice. 'Why will you continue splitting words?
Have I not told you that the superior is the better?' But what do you
mean by the better? Tell me that, and please to be a little milder
in your language, if you do not wish to drive me away. 'I mean the
worthier, the wiser.' You mean to say that one man of sense ought to
rule over ten thousand fools? 'Yes, that is my meaning.' Ought the
physician then to have a larger share of meats and drinks? or the weaver
to have more coats, or the cobbler larger shoes, or the farmer more
seed? 'You are always saying the same things, Socrates.' Yes, and on the
same subjects too; but you are never saying the same things. For, first,
you defined the superior to be the stronger, and then the wiser, and now
something else;--what DO you mean? 'I mean men of political ability, who
ought to govern and to have more than the governed.' Than themselves?
'What do you mean?' I mean to say that every man is his own governor. 'I
see that you mean those dolts, the temperate. But my doctrine is, that a
man should let his desires grow, and take the means of satisfying them.
To the many this is impossible, and therefore they combine to prevent
him. But if he is a king, and has power, how base would he be in
submitting to them! To invite the common herd to be lord over him, when
he might have the enjoyment of all things! For the truth is, Socrates,
that luxury and self-indulgence are virtue and happiness; all the rest
is mere talk.'
