SOCRATES - POLEMARCHUS - GLAUCON - ADEIMANTUS
Polemarchus said to me:  I perceive, Socrates, that you and our
companion are already on your way to the city.
You are not far wrong, I said.
But do you see, he rejoined, how many we are?
Of course.
And are you stronger than all these? for if not, you will have to
remain where you are.
May there not be the alternative, I said, that we may persuade you to
let us go?
But can you persuade us, if we refuse to listen to you? he said.
Certainly not, replied Glaucon.
Then we are not going to listen; of that you may be assured.
Adeimantus added:  Has no one told you of the torch-race on horseback
in honour of the goddess which will take place in the evening?
With horses!  I replied:  That is a novelty.  Will horsemen carry
torches and pass them one to another during the race?
Yes, said Polemarchus, and not only so, but a festival will he
celebrated at night, which you certainly ought to see.  Let us rise
soon after supper and see this festival; there will be a gathering of
young men, and we will have a good talk.  Stay then, and do not be
perverse.
Glaucon said:  I suppose, since you insist, that we must.
Very good, I replied.
GLAUCON - CEPHALUS - SOCRATES
Accordingly we went with Polemarchus to his house; and there we found
his brothers Lysias and Euthydemus, and with them Thrasymachus the
Chalcedonian, Charmantides the Paeanian, and Cleitophon the son of
Aristonymus.  There too was Cephalus the father of Polemarchus, whom I
had not seen for a long time, and I thought him very much aged.  He was
seated on a cushioned chair, and had a garland on his head, for he had
been sacrificing in the court; and there were some other chairs in the
room arranged in a semicircle, upon which we sat down by him.  He
saluted me eagerly, and then he said:--
You don't come to see me, Socrates, as often as you ought: If I were
still able to go and see you I would not ask you to come to me.  But at
my age I can hardly get to the city, and therefore you should come
oftener to the Piraeus.  For let me tell you, that the more the
pleasures of the body fade away, the greater to me is the pleasure and
charm of conversation.  Do not then deny my request, but make our house
your resort and keep company with these young men; we are old friends,
and you will be quite at home with us.
I replied:  There is nothing which for my part I like better, Cephalus,
than conversing with aged men; for I regard them as travellers who have
gone a journey which I too may have to go, and of whom I ought to
enquire, whether the way is smooth and easy, or rugged and difficult.
And this is a question which I should like to ask of you who have
arrived at that time which the poets call the 'threshold of old
age'--Is life harder towards the end, or what report do you give of it?
