I agree with you, said Polemarchus.
Then you and I are prepared to take up arms against any one who
attributes such a saying to Simonides or Bias or Pittacus, or any other
wise man or seer?
I am quite ready to do battle at your side, he said.
Shall I tell you whose I believe the saying to be?
Whose?
I believe that Periander or Perdiccas or Xerxes or Ismenias the Theban,
or some other rich and mighty man, who had a great opinion of his own
power, was the first to say that justice is 'doing good to your friends
and harm to your enemies.'
Most true, he said.
Yes, I said; but if this definition of justice also breaks down, what
other can be offered?
Several times in the course of the discussion Thrasymachus had made an
attempt to get the argument into his own hands, and had been put down
by the rest of the company, who wanted to hear the end.  But when
Polemarchus and I had done speaking and there was a pause, he could no
longer hold his peace; and, gathering himself up, he came at us like a
wild beast, seeking to devour us.  We were quite panic-stricken at the
sight of him.
SOCRATES - POLEMARCHUS - THRASYMACHUS
He roared out to the whole company:  What folly.  Socrates, has taken
possession of you all?  And why, sillybillies, do you knock under to
one another?  I say that if you want really to know what justice is,
you should not only ask but answer, and you should not seek honour to
yourself from the refutation of an opponent, but have your own answer;
for there is many a one who can ask and cannot answer.  And now I will
not have you say that justice is duty or advantage or profit or gain or
interest, for this sort of nonsense will not do for me; I must have
clearness and accuracy.
I was panic-stricken at his words, and could not look at him without
trembling.  Indeed I believe that if I had not fixed my eye upon him, I
should have been struck dumb:  but when I saw his fury rising, I looked
at him first, and was therefore able to reply to him.
Thrasymachus, I said, with a quiver, don't be hard upon us.
Polemarchus and I may have been guilty of a little mistake in the
argument, but I can assure you that the error was not intentional.  If
we were seeking for a piece of gold, you would not imagine that we were
'knocking under to one another,' and so losing our chance of finding
it.  And why, when we are seeking for justice, a thing more precious
than many pieces of gold, do you say that we are weakly yielding to one
another and not doing our utmost to get at the truth?  Nay, my good
friend, we are most willing and anxious to do so, but the fact is that
we cannot.  And if so, you people who know all things should pity us
and not be angry with us.
