Inflammations originate in bile, which is sometimes relieved by boils
and swellings, but when detained, and above all when mingled with pure
blood, generates many inflammatory disorders, disturbing the position of
the fibres which are scattered about in the blood in order to maintain
the balance of rare and dense which is necessary to its regular
circulation. If the bile, which is only stale blood, or liquefied flesh,
comes in little by little, it is congealed by the fibres and produces
internal cold and shuddering. But when it enters with more of a flood
it overcomes the fibres by its heat and reaches the spinal marrow, and
burning up the cables of the soul sets her free from the body. When on
the other hand the body, though wasted, still holds out, then the bile
is expelled, like an exile from a factious state, causing associating
diarrhoeas and dysenteries and similar disorders. The body which is
diseased from the effects of fire is in a continual fever; when air is
the agent, the fever is quotidian; when water, the fever intermits a
day; when earth, which is the most sluggish element, the fever intermits
three days and is with difficulty shaken off.
Of mental disorders there are two sorts, one madness, the other
ignorance, and they may be justly attributed to disease. Excessive
pleasures or pains are among the greatest diseases, and deprive men of
their senses. When the seed about the spinal marrow is too abundant, the
body has too great pleasures and pains; and during a great part of his
life he who is the subject of them is more or less mad. He is
often thought bad, but this is a mistake; for the truth is that the
intemperance of lust is due to the fluidity of the marrow produced by
the loose consistency of the bones. And this is true of vice in
general, which is commonly regarded as disgraceful, whereas it is really
involuntary and arises from a bad habit of the body and evil education.
In like manner the soul is often made vicious by the influence of bodily
pain; the briny phlegm and other bitter and bilious humours wander over
the body and find no exit, but are compressed within, and mingle their
own vapours with the motions of the soul, and are carried to the
three places of the soul, creating infinite varieties of trouble and
melancholy, of rashness and cowardice, of forgetfulness and stupidity.
When men are in this evil plight of body, and evil forms of government
and evil discourses are superadded, and there is no education to save
them, they are corrupted through two causes; but of neither of them are
they really the authors. For the planters are to blame rather than the
plants, the educators and not the educated. Still, we should endeavour
to attain virtue and avoid vice; but this is part of another subject.
Enough of disease--I have now to speak of the means by which the mind
and body are to be preserved, a higher theme than the other. The good
is the beautiful, and the beautiful is the symmetrical, and there is no
greater or fairer symmetry than that of body and soul, as the contrary
is the greatest of deformities. A leg or an arm too long or too short
is at once ugly and unserviceable, and the same is true if body and soul
are disproportionate. For a strong and impassioned soul may 'fret the
pigmy body to decay,' and so produce convulsions and other evils. The
violence of controversy, or the earnestness of enquiry, will often
generate inflammations and rheums which are not understood, or assigned
to their true cause by the professors of medicine. And in like manner
the body may be too much for the soul, darkening the reason, and
quickening the animal desires. The only security is to preserve the
balance of the two, and to this end the mathematician or philosopher
must practise gymnastics, and the gymnast must cultivate music. The
parts of the body too must be treated in the same way--they should
receive their appropriate exercise. For the body is set in motion when
it is heated and cooled by the elements which enter in, or is dried up
and moistened by external things; and, if given up to these processes
when at rest, it is liable to destruction. But the natural motion, as
in the world, so also in the human frame, produces harmony and divides
hostile powers. The best exercise is the spontaneous motion of the body,
as in gymnastics, because most akin to the motion of mind; not so
good is the motion of which the source is in another, as in sailing or
riding; least good when the body is at rest and the motion is in parts
only, which is a species of motion imparted by physic. This should only
be resorted to by men of sense in extreme cases; lesser diseases are
not to be irritated by medicine. For every disease is akin to the living
being and has an appointed term, just as life has, which depends on the
form of the triangles, and cannot be protracted when they are worn out.
And he who, instead of accepting his destiny, endeavours to prolong
his life by medicine, is likely to multiply and magnify his diseases.
Regimen and not medicine is the true cure, when a man has time at his
disposal.
