I was wrong in imagining that all the four elements could be generated
into and out of one another. For as they are formed, three of them from
the triangle which has the sides unequal, the fourth from the triangle
which has equal sides, three can be resolved into one another, but the
fourth cannot be resolved into them nor they into it. So much for their
passage into one another: I must now speak of their construction. From
the triangle of which the hypotenuse is twice the lesser side the three
first regular solids are formed--first, the equilateral pyramid or
tetrahedron; secondly, the octahedron; thirdly, the icosahedron; and
from the isosceles triangle is formed the cube. And there is a fifth
figure (which is made out of twelve pentagons), the dodecahedron--this
God used as a model for the twelvefold division of the Zodiac.
Let us now assign the geometrical forms to their respective elements.
The cube is the most stable of them because resting on a quadrangular
plane surface, and composed of isosceles triangles. To the earth then,
which is the most stable of bodies and the most easily modelled of them,
may be assigned the form of a cube; and the remaining forms to the other
elements,--to fire the pyramid, to air the octahedron, and to water the
icosahedron,--according to their degrees of lightness or heaviness or
power, or want of power, of penetration. The single particles of any of
the elements are not seen by reason of their smallness; they only become
visible when collected. The ratios of their motions, numbers, and
other properties, are ordered by the God, who harmonized them as far as
necessity permitted.
The probable conclusion is as follows:--Earth, when dissolved by the
more penetrating element of fire, whether acting immediately or through
the medium of air or water, is decomposed but not transformed. Water,
when divided by fire or air, becomes one part fire, and two parts air.
A volume of air divided becomes two of fire. On the other hand, when
condensed, two volumes of fire make a volume of air; and two and a half
parts of air condense into one of water. Any element which is fastened
upon by fire is cut by the sharpness of the triangles, until at length,
coalescing with the fire, it is at rest; for similars are not affected
by similars. When two kinds of bodies quarrel with one another, then the
tendency to decomposition continues until the smaller either escapes to
its kindred element or becomes one with its conqueror. And this tendency
in bodies to condense or escape is a source of motion...Where there is
motion there must be a mover, and where there is a mover there must be
something to move. These cannot exist in what is uniform, and therefore
motion is due to want of uniformity. But then why, when things are
divided after their kinds, do they not cease from motion? The answer is,
that the circular motion of all things compresses them, and as 'nature
abhors a vacuum,' the finer and more subtle particles of the lighter
elements, such as fire and air, are thrust into the interstices of the
larger, each of them penetrating according to their rarity, and thus
all the elements are on their way up and down everywhere and always
into their own places. Hence there is a principle of inequality, and
therefore of motion, in all time.
