Having now before us the causes out of which the rest of our discourse
is to be framed, let us go back to the point at which we began, and
add a fair ending to our tale. As I said at first, all things were
originally a chaos in which there was no order or proportion. The
elements of this chaos were arranged by the Creator, and out of them
he made the world. Of the divine he himself was the author, but he
committed to his offspring the creation of the mortal. From him they
received the immortal soul, but themselves made the body to be its
vehicle, and constructed within another soul which was mortal, and
subject to terrible affections--pleasure, the inciter of evil; pain,
which deters from good; rashness and fear, foolish counsellors; anger
hard to be appeased; hope easily led astray. These they mingled with
irrational sense and all-daring love according to necessary laws and so
framed man. And, fearing to pollute the divine element, they gave the
mortal soul a separate habitation in the breast, parted off from the
head by a narrow isthmus. And as in a house the women's apartments are
divided from the men's, the cavity of the thorax was divided into two
parts, a higher and a lower. The higher of the two, which is the seat of
courage and anger, lies nearer to the head, between the midriff and the
neck, and assists reason in restraining the desires. The heart is the
house of guard in which all the veins meet, and through them reason
sends her commands to the extremity of her kingdom. When the passions
are in revolt, or danger approaches from without, then the heart beats
and swells; and the creating powers, knowing this, implanted in the
body the soft and bloodless substance of the lung, having a porous and
springy nature like a sponge, and being kept cool by drink and air which
enters through the trachea.
The part of the soul which desires meat and drink was placed between the
midriff and navel, where they made a sort of manger; and here they bound
it down, like a wild animal, away from the council-chamber, and leaving
the better principle undisturbed to advise quietly for the good of the
whole. For the Creator knew that the belly would not listen to reason,
and was under the power of idols and fancies. Wherefore he framed the
liver to connect with the lower nature, contriving that it should be
compact, and bright, and sweet, and also bitter and smooth, in order
that the power of thought which originates in the mind might there be
reflected, terrifying the belly with the elements of bitterness and
gall, and a suffusion of bilious colours when the liver is contracted,
and causing pain and misery by twisting out of its place the lobe and
closing up the vessels and gates. And the converse happens when some
gentle inspiration coming from intelligence mirrors the opposite
fancies, giving rest and sweetness and freedom, and at night, moderation
and peace accompanied with prophetic insight, when reason and sense are
asleep. For the authors of our being, in obedience to their Father's
will and in order to make men as good as they could, gave to the liver
the power of divination, which is never active when men are awake or
in health; but when they are under the influence of some disorder or
enthusiasm then they receive intimations, which have to be interpreted
by others who are called prophets, but should rather be called
interpreters of prophecy; after death these intimations become
unintelligible. The spleen which is situated in the neighbourhood, on
the left side, keeps the liver bright and clean, as a napkin does a
mirror, and the evacuations of the liver are received into it; and being
a hollow tissue it is for a time swollen with these impurities, but when
the body is purged it returns to its natural size.
