Let me ask a question in which a great principle is involved: Is there
an essence of fire and the other elements, or are there only fires
visible to sense? I answer in a word: If mind is one thing and true
opinion another, then there are self-existent essences; but if mind is
the same with opinion, then the visible and corporeal is most real. But
they are not the same, and they have a different origin and nature.
The one comes to us by instruction, the other by persuasion, the one is
rational, the other is irrational; the one is movable by persuasion,
the other immovable; the one is possessed by every man, the other by the
gods and by very few men. And we must acknowledge that as there are two
kinds of knowledge, so there are two kinds of being corresponding to
them; the one uncreated, indestructible, immovable, which is seen by
intelligence only; the other created, which is always becoming in place
and vanishing out of place, and is apprehended by opinion and sense.
There is also a third nature--that of space, which is indestructible,
and is perceived by a kind of spurious reason without the help of
sense. This is presented to us in a dreamy manner, and yet is said to
be necessary, for we say that all things must be somewhere in space. For
they are the images of other things and must therefore have a separate
existence and exist in something (i.e. in space). But true reason
assures us that while two things (i.e. the idea and the image) are
different they cannot inhere in one another, so as to be one and two at
the same time.
To sum up: Being and generation and space, these three, existed before
the heavens, and the nurse or vessel of generation, moistened by water
and inflamed by fire, and taking the forms of air and earth, assumed
various shapes. By the motion of the vessel, the elements were divided,
and like grain winnowed by fans, the close and heavy particles settled
in one place, the light and airy ones in another. At first they were
without reason and measure, and had only certain faint traces of
themselves, until God fashioned them by figure and number. In this, as
in every other part of creation, I suppose God to have made things, as
far as was possible, fair and good, out of things not fair and good.
And now I will explain to you the generation of the world by a method
with which your scientific training will have made you familiar. Fire,
air, earth, and water are bodies and therefore solids, and solids
are contained in planes, and plane rectilinear figures are made up of
triangles. Of triangles there are two kinds; one having the opposite
sides equal (isosceles), the other with unequal sides (scalene). These
we may fairly assume to be the original elements of fire and the other
bodies; what principles are prior to these God only knows, and he of men
whom God loves. Next, we must determine what are the four most beautiful
figures which are unlike one another and yet sometimes capable of
resolution into one another...Of the two kinds of triangles the
equal-sided has but one form, the unequal-sided has an infinite variety
of forms; and there is none more beautiful than that which forms the
half of an equilateral triangle. Let us then choose two triangles; one,
the isosceles, the other, that form of scalene which has the square of
the longer side three times as great as the square of the lesser side;
and affirm that, out of these, fire and the other elements have been
constructed.
