We went slowly down the stairs. I was violently excited. I have a
certain talent for deduction, and Dr. Bauerstein's manner had started a
flock of wild surmises in my mind. Mary Cavendish laid her hand upon my
arm.
"What is it? Why did Dr. Bauerstein seem so--peculiar?"
I looked at her.
"Do you know what I think?"
"What?"
"Listen!" I looked round, the others were out of earshot. I lowered my
voice to a whisper. "I believe she has been poisoned! I'm certain Dr.
Bauerstein suspects it."
"_What_?" She shrank against the wall, the pupils of her eyes dilating
wildly. Then, with a sudden cry that startled me, she cried out: "No,
no--not that--not that!" And breaking from me, fled up the stairs. I
followed her, afraid that she was going to faint. I found her leaning
against the bannisters, deadly pale. She waved me away impatiently.
"No, no--leave me. I'd rather be alone. Let me just be quiet for a
minute or two. Go down to the others."
I obeyed her reluctantly. John and Lawrence were in the dining-room. I
joined them. We were all silent, but I suppose I voiced the thoughts of
us all when I at last broke it by saying:
"Where is Mr. Inglethorp?"
John shook his head.
"He's not in the house."
Our eyes met. Where _was_ Alfred Inglethorp? His absence was strange
and inexplicable. I remembered Mrs. Inglethorp's dying words. What lay
beneath them? What more could she have told us, if she had had time?
At last we heard the doctors descending the stairs. Dr. Wilkins
was looking important and excited, and trying to conceal an inward
exultation under a manner of decorous calm. Dr. Bauerstein remained in
the background, his grave bearded face unchanged. Dr. Wilkins was the
spokesman for the two. He addressed himself to John:
"Mr. Cavendish, I should like your consent to a postmortem."
"Is that necessary?" asked John gravely. A spasm of pain crossed his
face.
"Absolutely," said Dr. Bauerstein.
"You mean by that----?"
"That neither Dr. Wilkins nor myself could give a death certificate
under the circumstances."
John bent his head.
"In that case, I have no alternative but to agree."
"Thank you," said Dr. Wilkins briskly. "We propose that it should
take place to-morrow night--or rather to-night." And he glanced at the
daylight. "Under the circumstances, I am afraid an inquest can hardly
be avoided--these formalities are necessary, but I beg that you won't
distress yourselves."
There was a pause, and then Dr. Bauerstein drew two keys from his
pocket, and handed them to John.
"These are the keys of the two rooms. I have locked them and, in my
opinion, they would be better kept locked for the present."
The doctors then departed.
I had been turning over an idea in my head, and I felt that the moment
had now come to broach it. Yet I was a little chary of doing so. John,
I knew, had a horror of any kind of publicity, and was an easygoing
optimist, who preferred never to meet trouble half-way. It might be
difficult to convince him of the soundness of my plan. Lawrence, on the
other hand, being less conventional, and having more imagination, I felt
I might count upon as an ally. There was no doubt that the moment had
come for me to take the lead.
