“Oh!” Tuppence jumped. “I wonder----”
“Yes?”
“I remember in Mr. Whittington’s office. The clerk--he called him Brown.
You don’t think----”
Carter nodded thoughtfully.
“Very likely. A curious point is that the name is usually mentioned. An
idiosyncrasy of genius. Can you describe him at all?”
“I really didn’t notice. He was quite ordinary--just like anyone else.”
Mr. Carter sighed in his tired manner.
“That is the invariable description of Mr. Brown! Brought a telephone
message to the man Whittington, did he? Notice a telephone in the outer
office?”
Tuppence thought.
“No, I don’t think I did.”
“Exactly. That ‘message’ was Mr. Brown’s way of giving an order to his
subordinate. He overheard the whole conversation of course. Was it after
that that Whittington handed you over the money, and told you to come
the following day?”
Tuppence nodded.
“Yes, undoubtedly the hand of Mr. Brown!” Mr. Carter paused. “Well,
there it is, you see what you are pitting yourselves against? Possibly
the finest criminal brain of the age. I don’t quite like it, you know.
You’re such young things, both of you. I shouldn’t like anything to
happen to you.”
“It won’t,” Tuppence assured him positively.
“I’ll look after her, sir,” said Tommy.
“And _I_‘ll look after _you_,” retorted Tuppence, resenting the manly
assertion.
“Well, then, look after each other,” said Mr. Carter, smiling. “Now
let’s get back to business. There’s something mysterious about this
draft treaty that we haven’t fathomed yet. We’ve been threatened with
it--in plain and unmistakable terms. The Revolutionary element as good
as declare that it’s in their hands, and that they intend to produce it
at a given moment. On the other hand, they are clearly at fault about
many of its provisions. The Government consider it as mere bluff
on their part, and, rightly or wrongly, have stuck to the policy of
absolute denial. I’m not so sure. There have been hints, indiscreet
allusions, that seem to indicate that the menace is a real one. The
position is much as though they had got hold of an incriminating
document, but couldn’t read it because it was in cipher--but we know
that the draft treaty wasn’t in cipher--couldn’t be in the nature of
things--so that won’t wash. But there’s _something_. Of course, Jane
Finn may be dead for all we know--but I don’t think so. The curious
thing is that _they’re trying to get information about the girl from
us_.”
“What?”
“Yes. One or two little things have cropped up. And your story, little
lady, confirms my idea. They know we’re looking for Jane Finn. Well,
they’ll produce a Jane Finn of their own--say at a _pensionnat_ in
Paris.” Tuppence gasped, and Mr. Carter smiled. “No one knows in the
least what she looks like, so that’s all right. She’s primed with a
trumped-up tale, and her real business is to get as much information as
possible out of us. See the idea?”
“Then you think”--Tuppence paused to grasp the supposition fully--“that
it _was_ as Jane Finn that they wanted me to go to Paris?”
