"Now, my friend," said Poirot briskly, "we will go. I should like to ask
a few questions of the parlourmaid--Dorcas, her name is, is it not?"
We passed through Alfred Inglethorp's room, and Poirot delayed long
enough to make a brief but fairly comprehensive examination of it.
We went out through that door, locking both it and that of Mrs.
Inglethorp's room as before.
I took him down to the boudoir which he had expressed a wish to see, and
went myself in search of Dorcas.
When I returned with her, however, the boudoir was empty.
"Poirot," I cried, "where are you?"
"I am here, my friend."
He had stepped outside the French window, and was standing, apparently
lost in admiration, before the various shaped flower beds.
"Admirable!" he murmured. "Admirable! What symmetry! Observe that
crescent; and those diamonds--their neatness rejoices the eye. The
spacing of the plants, also, is perfect. It has been recently done; is
it not so?"
"Yes, I believe they were at it yesterday afternoon. But come in--Dorcas
is here."
"_Eh bien, eh bien!_ Do not grudge me a moment's satisfaction of the
eye."
"Yes, but this affair is more important."
"And how do you know that these fine begonias are not of equal
importance?"
I shrugged my shoulders. There was really no arguing with him if he
chose to take that line.
"You do not agree? But such things have been. Well, we will come in and
interview the brave Dorcas."
Dorcas was standing in the boudoir, her hands folded in front of her,
and her grey hair rose in stiff waves under her white cap. She was the
very model and picture of a good old-fashioned servant.
In her attitude towards Poirot, she was inclined to be suspicious, but
he soon broke down her defences. He drew forward a chair.
"Pray be seated, mademoiselle."
"Thank you, sir."
"You have been with your mistress many years, is it not so?"
"Ten years, sir."
"That is a long time, and very faithful service. You were much attached
to her, were you not?"
"She was a very good mistress to me, sir."
"Then you will not object to answering a few questions. I put them to
you with Mr. Cavendish's full approval."
"Oh, certainly, sir."
"Then I will begin by asking you about the events of yesterday
afternoon. Your mistress had a quarrel?"
"Yes, sir. But I don't know that I ought----" Dorcas hesitated. Poirot
looked at her keenly.
"My good Dorcas, it is necessary that I should know every detail of that
quarrel as fully as possible. Do not think that you are betraying your
mistress's secrets. Your mistress lies dead, and it is necessary that we
should know all--if we are to avenge her. Nothing can bring her back to
life, but we do hope, if there has been foul play, to bring the murderer
to justice."
"Amen to that," said Dorcas fiercely. "And, naming no names, there's
_one_ in this house that none of us could ever abide! And an ill day it
was when first _he_ darkened the threshold."
