"John," I said, "I am going to ask you something."
"Well?"
"You remember my speaking of my friend Poirot? The Belgian who is here?
He has been a most famous detective."
"Yes."
"I want you to let me call him in--to investigate this matter."
"What--now? Before the post-mortem?"
"Yes, time is an advantage if--if--there has been foul play."
"Rubbish!" cried Lawrence angrily. "In my opinion the whole thing is
a mare's nest of Bauerstein's! Wilkins hadn't an idea of such a thing,
until Bauerstein put it into his head. But, like all specialists,
Bauerstein's got a bee in his bonnet. Poisons are his hobby, so of
course he sees them everywhere."
I confess that I was surprised by Lawrence's attitude. He was so seldom
vehement about anything.
John hesitated.
"I can't feel as you do, Lawrence," he said at last. "I'm inclined to
give Hastings a free hand, though I should prefer to wait a bit. We
don't want any unnecessary scandal."
"No, no," I cried eagerly, "you need have no fear of that. Poirot is
discretion itself."
"Very well, then, have it your own way. I leave it in your hands.
Though, if it is as we suspect, it seems a clear enough case. God
forgive me if I am wronging him!"
I looked at my watch. It was six o'clock. I determined to lose no time.
Five minutes' delay, however, I allowed myself. I spent it in ransacking
the library until I discovered a medical book which gave a description
of strychnine poisoning.
CHAPTER IV. POIROT INVESTIGATES
The house which the Belgians occupied in the village was quite close to
the park gates. One could save time by taking a narrow path through
the long grass, which cut off the detours of the winding drive. So I,
accordingly, went that way. I had nearly reached the lodge, when my
attention was arrested by the running figure of a man approaching me. It
was Mr. Inglethorp. Where had he been? How did he intend to explain his
absence?
He accosted me eagerly.
"My God! This is terrible! My poor wife! I have only just heard."
"Where have you been?" I asked.
"Denby kept me late last night. It was one o'clock before we'd finished.
Then I found that I'd forgotten the latch-key after all. I didn't want
to arouse the household, so Denby gave me a bed."
"How did you hear the news?" I asked.
"Wilkins knocked Denby up to tell him. My poor Emily! She was so
self-sacrificing--such a noble character. She over-taxed her strength."
A wave of revulsion swept over me. What a consummate hypocrite the man
was!
"I must hurry on," I said, thankful that he did not ask me whither I was
bound.
In a few minutes I was knocking at the door of Leastways Cottage.
Getting no answer, I repeated my summons impatiently. A window above me
was cautiously opened, and Poirot himself looked out.
He gave an exclamation of surprise at seeing me. In a few brief words, I
explained the tragedy that had occurred, and that I wanted his help.
