"That may have been done some time ago," I interrupted.
"No, for it is still perceptibly damp and smells of coffee. Four,
a fragment of some dark green fabric--only a thread or two, but
recognizable."
"Ah!" I cried. "That was what you sealed up in the envelope."
"Yes. It may turn out to be a piece of one of Mrs. Inglethorp's own
dresses, and quite unimportant. We shall see. Five, _this_!" With a
dramatic gesture, he pointed to a large splash of candle grease on the
floor by the writing-table. "It must have been done since yesterday,
otherwise a good housemaid would have at once removed it with
blotting-paper and a hot iron. One of my best hats once--but that is not
to the point."
"It was very likely done last night. We were very agitated. Or perhaps
Mrs. Inglethorp herself dropped her candle."
"You brought only one candle into the room?"
"Yes. Lawrence Cavendish was carrying it. But he was very upset. He
seemed to see something over here"--I indicated the mantelpiece--"that
absolutely paralysed him."
"That is interesting," said Poirot quickly. "Yes, it is suggestive"--his
eye sweeping the whole length of the wall--"but it was not his candle
that made this great patch, for you perceive that this is white
grease; whereas Monsieur Lawrence's candle, which is still on the
dressing-table, is pink. On the other hand, Mrs. Inglethorp had no
candlestick in the room, only a reading-lamp."
"Then," I said, "what do you deduce?"
To which my friend only made a rather irritating reply, urging me to use
my own natural faculties.
"And the sixth point?" I asked. "I suppose it is the sample of cocoa."
"No," said Poirot thoughtfully. "I might have included that in the
six, but I did not. No, the sixth point I will keep to myself for the
present."
He looked quickly round the room. "There is nothing more to be done
here, I think, unless"--he stared earnestly and long at the dead ashes
in the grate. "The fire burns--and it destroys. But by chance--there
might be--let us see!"
Deftly, on hands and knees, he began to sort the ashes from the grate
into the fender, handling them with the greatest caution. Suddenly, he
gave a faint exclamation.
"The forceps, Hastings!"
I quickly handed them to him, and with skill he extracted a small piece
of half charred paper.
"There, _mon ami!_" he cried. "What do you think of that?"
I scrutinized the fragment. This is an exact reproduction of it:--
I was puzzled. It was unusually thick, quite unlike ordinary notepaper.
Suddenly an idea struck me.
"Poirot!" I cried. "This is a fragment of a will!"
"Exactly."
I looked up at him sharply.
"You are not surprised?"
"No," he said gravely, "I expected it."
I relinquished the piece of paper, and watched him put it away in his
case, with the same methodical care that he bestowed on everything.
My brain was in a whirl. What was this complication of a will? Who had
destroyed it? The person who had left the candle grease on the floor?
Obviously. But how had anyone gained admission? All the doors had been
bolted on the inside.
