"Because I was not so strong as they; because I could not pack as much
or as long.  And they laughed at me and left me."
"Have you ever roughed it?" Frona asked.
"No."
"You look well put up and strong.  Weigh probably one hundred and
sixty-five?"
"One hundred-and seventy," he corrected.
"You don't look as though you had ever been troubled with sickness.
Never an invalid?"
"N-no."
"And your comrades?  They are miners?"
"Never mining in their lives.  They worked in the same establishment
with me.  That's what makes it so hard, don't you see!  We'd known one
another for years!  And to go off and leave me just because I couldn't
keep up!"
"My friend," and Frona knew she was speaking for the race, "you are
strong as they.  You can work just as hard as they; pack as much.  But
you are weak of heart.  This is no place for the weak of heart.  You
cannot work like a horse because you will not.  Therefore the country
has no use for you.  The north wants strong men,--strong of soul, not
body.  The body does not count.  So go back to the States.  We do not
want you here.  If you come you will die, and what then of| your wife
and babies?  So sell out your outfit and go back.  You will be home in
three weeks.  Good-by."
She passed through Sheep Camp.  Somewhere above, a mighty glacier,
under the pent pressure of a subterranean reservoir, had burst asunder
and hurled a hundred thousand tons of ice and water down the rocky
gorge.  The trail was yet slippery with the slime of the flood, and men
were rummaging disconsolately in the rubbish of overthrown tents and
caches.  But here and there they worked with nervous haste, and the
stark corpses by the trail-side attested dumbly to their labor.  A few
hundred yards beyond, the work of the rush went on uninterrupted.  Men
rested their packs on jutting stones, swapped escapes whilst they
regained their breath, then stumbled on to their toil again.
The mid-day sun beat down upon the stone "Scales."  The forest had
given up the struggle, and the dizzying heat recoiled from the
unclothed rock.  On either hand rose the ice-marred ribs of earth,
naked and strenuous in their nakedness.  Above towered storm-beaten
Chilcoot.  Up its gaunt and ragged front crawled a slender string of
men.  But it was an endless string.  It came out of the last fringe of
dwarfed shrub below, drew a black line across a dazzling stretch of
ice, and filed past Frona where she ate her lunch by the way.  And it
went on, up the pitch of the steep, growing fainter and smaller, till
it squirmed and twisted like a column of ants and vanished over the
crest of the pass.
Even as she looked, Chilcoot was wrapped in rolling mist and whirling
cloud, and a storm of sleet and wind roared down upon the toiling
pigmies.  The light was swept out of the day, and a deep gloom
prevailed; but Frona knew that somewhere up there, clinging and
climbing and immortally striving, the long line of ants still twisted
towards the sky.  And she thrilled at the thought, strong with man's
ancient love of mastery, and stepped into the line which came out of
the storm behind and disappeared into the storm before.
