A canoe picked up the swimming man, but the rest disappeared in a long
stretch of swift, deep water.  For a quarter of an hour the canoes
plied fruitlessly about, then found the dead men gently grounded in an
eddy.  A tow-rope was requisitioned from an up-coming boat, and a pair
of horses from a pack-train on the bank, and the ghastly jetsam hauled
ashore.  Frona looked at the five young giants lying in the mud,
broken-boned, limp, uncaring.  They were still harnessed to the cart,
and the poor worthless packs still clung to their backs, The sixth sat
in the midst, dry-eyed and stunned.  A dozen feet away the steady flood
of life flowed by and Frona melted into it and went on.
The dark spruce-shrouded mountains drew close together in the Dyea
Canyon, and the feet of men churned the wet sunless earth into mire and
bog-hole.  And when they had done this they sought new paths, till
there were many paths.  And on such a path Frona came upon a man spread
carelessly in the mud.  He lay on his side, legs apart and one arm
buried beneath him, pinned down by a bulky pack.  His cheek was
pillowed restfully in the ooze, and on his face there was an expression
of content.  He brightened when he saw her, and his eyes twinkled
cheerily.
"'Bout time you hove along," he greeted her.  "Been waitin' an hour on
you as it is."
"That's it," as Frona bent over him.  "Just unbuckle that strap.  The
pesky thing!  'Twas just out o' my reach all the time."
"Are you hurt?" she asked.
He slipped out of his straps, shook himself, and felt the twisted arm.
"Nope.  Sound as a dollar, thank you.  And no kick to register,
either."  He reached over and wiped his muddy hands on a low-bowed
spruce.  "Just my luck; but I got a good rest, so what's the good of
makin' a beef about it?  You see, I tripped on that little root there,
and slip! slump! slam! and slush!--there I was, down and out, and the
buckle just out o' reach.  And there I lay for a blasted hour,
everybody hitting the lower path."
"But why didn't you call out to them?"
"And make 'em climb up the hill to me?  Them all tuckered out with
their own work?  Not on your life!  Wasn't serious enough.  If any
other man 'd make me climb up just because he'd slipped down, I'd take
him out o' the mud all right, all right, and punch and punch him back
into the mud again.  Besides, I knew somebody was bound to come along
my way after a while."
"Oh, you'll do!" she cried, appropriating Del Bishop's phrase.  "You'll
do for this country!"
"Yep," he called back, shouldering his pack and starting off at a
lively clip.  "And, anyway, I got a good rest."
The trail dipped through a precipitous morass to the river's brink.  A
slender pine-tree spanned the screaming foam and bent midway to touch
the water.  The surge beat upon the taper trunk and gave it a
rhythmical swaying motion, while the feet of the packers had worn
smooth its wave-washed surface.  Eighty feet it stretched in ticklish
insecurity.  Frona stepped upon it, felt it move beneath her, heard the
bellowing of the water, saw the mad rush--and shrank back.  She slipped
the knot of her shoe-laces and pretended great care in the tying
thereof as a bunch of Indians came out of the woods above and down
through the mud.  Three or four bucks led the way, followed by many
squaws, all bending in the head-straps to the heavy packs.  Behind came
the children burdened according to their years, and in the rear half a
dozen dogs, tongues lagging out and dragging forward painfully under
their several loads.
