When we were "It," Broken-Tooth always ran out to the end of a lofty
branch in a certain tree. From the end of the branch to the ground it
must have been seventy feet, and nothing intervened to break a fall.
But about twenty feet lower down, and fully fifteen feet out from the
perpendicular, was the thick branch of another tree.
As we ran out the limb, Broken-Tooth, facing us, would begin teetering.
This naturally impeded our progress; but there was more in the teetering
than that. He teetered with his back to the jump he was to make. Just as
we nearly reached him he would let go. The teetering branch was like a
spring-board. It threw him far out, backward, as he fell. And as he fell
he turned around sidewise in the air so as to face the other branch into
which he was falling. This branch bent far down under the impact, and
sometimes there was an ominous crackling; but it never broke, and out
of the leaves was always to be seen the face of Broken-Tooth grinning
triumphantly up at us.
I was "It" the last time Broken-Tooth tried this. He had gained the end
of the branch and begun his teetering, and I was creeping out after him,
when suddenly there came a low warning cry from Lop-Ear. I looked down
and saw him in the main fork of the tree crouching close against the
trunk. Instinctively I crouched down upon the thick limb. Broken-Tooth
stopped teetering, but the branch would not stop, and his body continued
bobbing up and down with the rustling leaves.
I heard the crackle of a dry twig, and looking down saw my first
Fire-Man. He was creeping stealthily along on the ground and peering up
into the tree. At first I thought he was a wild animal, because he wore
around his waist and over his shoulders a ragged piece of bearskin. And
then I saw his hands and feet, and more clearly his features. He was
very much like my kind, except that he was less hairy and that his feet
were less like hands than ours. In fact, he and his people, as I was
later to know, were far less hairy than we, though we, in turn, were
equally less hairy than the Tree People.
It came to me instantly, as I looked at him. This was the terror of the
northeast, of which the mystery of smoke was a token. Yet I was puzzled.
Certainly he was nothing; of which to be afraid. Red-Eye or any of our
strong men would have been more than a match for him. He was old, too,
wizened with age, and the hair on his face was gray. Also, he limped
badly with one leg. There was no doubt at all that we could out-run him
and out-climb him. He could never catch us, that was certain.
But he carried something in his hand that I had never seen before. It
was a bow and arrow. But at that time a bow and arrow had no meaning for
me. How was I to know that death lurked in that bent piece of wood?
But Lop-Ear knew. He had evidently seen the Fire People before and
knew something of their ways. The Fire-Man peered up at him and circled
around the tree. And around the main trunk above the fork Lop-Ear
circled too, keeping always the trunk between himself and the Fire-Man.
