"Mush, you beauties!" he cried.
The animals threw their weights against their breastbands on the
instant, crouching low to the snow, and digging in their claws. They
whined eagerly, and before the sled had gone half a dozen lengths both
Daylight and Kama (in the rear) were running to keep up.  And so,
running, man and dogs dipped over the bank and down to the frozen bed
of the Yukon, and in the gray light were gone.
[1] Tenderfeet.
[2] Old-timers.
[3] Muc-luc: a water-tight, Eskimo boot, made from walrus-hide and
trimmed with fur.
[4] A gee-pole: stout pole projecting forward from one side of the
front end of the sled, by which the sled is steered.
CHAPTER IV
On the river, where was a packed trail and where snowshoes were
unnecessary, the dogs averaged six miles an hour.  To keep up with
them, the two men were compelled to run.  Daylight and Kama relieved
each other regularly at the gee-pole, for here was the hard work of
steering the flying sled and of keeping in advance of it.  The man
relieved dropped behind the sled, occasionally leaping upon it and
resting.
It was severe work, but of the sort that was exhilarating.
They were flying, getting over the ground, making the most of the
packed trail.  Later on they would come to the unbroken trail, where
three miles an hour would constitute good going.  Then there would be
no riding and resting, and no running.  Then the gee-pole would be the
easier task, and a man would come back to it to rest after having
completed his spell to the fore, breaking trail with the snowshoes for
the dogs.  Such work was far from exhilarating also, they must expect
places where for miles at a time they must toil over chaotic ice-jams,
where they would be fortunate if they made two miles an hour.  And
there would be the inevitable bad jams, short ones, it was true, but so
bad that a mile an hour would require terrific effort.  Kama and
Daylight did not talk.  In the nature of the work they could not, nor
in their own natures were they given to talking while they worked. At
rare intervals, when necessary, they addressed each other in
monosyllables, Kama, for the most part, contenting himself with grunts.
Occasionally a dog whined or snarled, but in the main the team kept
silent.  Only could be heard the sharp, jarring grate of the steel
runners over the hard surface and the creak of the straining sled.
As if through a wall, Daylight had passed from the hum and roar of the
Tivoli into another world--a world of silence and immobility.  Nothing
stirred.  The Yukon slept under a coat of ice three feet thick.  No
breath of wind blew.  Nor did the sap move in the hearts of the spruce
trees that forested the river banks on either hand.  The trees,
burdened with the last infinitesimal pennyweight of snow their branches
could hold, stood in absolute petrifaction.  The slightest tremor would
have dislodged the snow, and no snow was dislodged.  The sled was the
one point of life and motion in the midst of the solemn quietude, and
the harsh churn of its runners but emphasized the silence through which
it moved.
