"'Parson,' says the bridegroom, 'I rises to question your grammar in
that there sentence.  I want this weddin' done right.'
"When the smoke clears away, the bride she looks around and sees a dead
parson, a dead bridegroom, a dead brother, two dead uncles, and five
dead wedding-guests.
"So she heaves a mighty strong sigh and says, 'Them new-fangled,
self-cocking revolvers sure has played hell with my prospects.'
"And so I say to you-all," Daylight added, as the roar of laughter died
down, "that them four kings of Jack Kearns sure has played hell with my
prospects.  I'm busted higher'n a kite, and I'm hittin' the trail for
Dyea--"
"Goin' out?" some one called.  A spasm of anger wrought on his face for
a flashing instant, but in the next his good-humor was back again.
"I know you-all are only pokin' fun asking such a question," he said,
with a smile.  "Of course I ain't going out."
"Take the oath again, Daylight," the same voice cried.
"I sure will.  I first come over Chilcoot in '83.  I went out over the
Pass in a fall blizzard, with a rag of a shirt and a cup of raw flour.
I got my grub-stake in Juneau that winter, and in the spring I went
over the Pass once more.  And once more the famine drew me out.  Next
spring I went in again, and I swore then that I'd never come out till I
made my stake.  Well, I ain't made it, and here I am.  And I ain't
going out now.  I get the mail and I come right back.  I won't stop the
night at Dyea. I'll hit up Chilcoot soon as I change the dogs and get
the mail and grub.  And so I swear once more, by the mill-tails of hell
and the head of John the Baptist, I'll never hit for the Outside till I
make my pile.  And I tell you-all, here and now, it's got to be an
almighty big pile."
"How much might you call a pile?" Bettles demanded from beneath, his
arms clutched lovingly around Daylight's legs.
"Yes, how much?  What do you call a pile?" others cried.
Daylight steadied himself for a moment and debated.  "Four or five
millions," he said slowly, and held up his hand for silence as his
statement was received with derisive yells.  "I'll be real
conservative, and put the bottom notch at a million.  And for not an
ounce less'n that will I go out of the country."
Again his statement was received with an outburst of derision. Not only
had the total gold output of the Yukon up to date been below five
millions, but no man had ever made a strike of a hundred thousand, much
less of a million.
"You-all listen to me.  You seen Jack Kearns get a hunch to-night.  We
had him sure beat before the draw.  His ornery three kings was no good.
But he just knew there was another king coming--that was his hunch--and
he got it.  And I tell you-all I got a hunch.  There's a big strike
coming on the Yukon, and it's just about due.  I don't mean no ornery
Moosehide, Birch-Creek kind of a strike.  I mean a real rip-snorter
hair-raiser.  I tell you-all she's in the air and hell-bent for
election.  Nothing can stop her, and she'll come up river.  There's
where you-all track my moccasins in the near future if you-all want to
find me--somewhere in the country around Stewart River, Indian River,
and Klondike River.  When I get back with the mail, I'll head that way
so fast you-all won't see my trail for smoke.  She's a-coming, fellows,
gold from the grass roots down, a hundred dollars to the pan, and a
stampede in from the Outside fifty thousand strong.  You-all'll think
all hell's busted loose when that strike is made."
