"Nay, nay, Nam-Bok," cried the head man; "how can that be? Always iron
goes to the bottom. For behold, I received an iron knife in trade from
the head man of the next village, and yesterday the iron knife slipped
from my fingers and went down, down, into the sea. To all things there
be law. Never was there one thing outside the law. This we know. And,
moreover, we know that things of a kind have the one law, and that all
iron has the one law. So unsay thy words, Nam-Bok, that we may yet
honor thee."
"It is so," Nam-Bok persisted. "The steamer is all iron and does not
sink."
"Nay, nay; this cannot be."
"With my own eyes I saw it."
"It is not in the nature of things."
"But tell me, Nam-Bok," Koogah interrupted, for fear the tale would
go no farther, "tell me the manner of these men in finding their way
across the sea when there is no land by which to steer."
"The sun points out the path."
"But how?"
"At midday the head man of the schooner takes a thing through which
his eye looks at the sun, and then he makes the sun climb down out of
the sky to the edge of the earth."
"Now this be evil medicine!" cried Opee-Kwan, aghast at the sacrilege.
The men held up their hands in horror, and the women moaned. "This be
evil medicine. It is not good to misdirect the great sun which drives
away the night and gives us the seal, the salmon, and warm weather."
"What if it be evil medicine?" Nam-Bok demanded truculently. "I, too,
have looked through the thing at the sun and made the sun climb down
out of the sky."
Those who were nearest drew away from him hurriedly, and a woman
covered the face of a child at her breast so that his eye might not
fall upon it.
"But on the morning of the fourth day, O Nam-Bok," Koogah suggested;
"on the morning of the fourth day when the sch--sch--schooner came
after thee?"
"I had little strength left in me and could not run away. So I was
taken on board and water was poured down my throat and good food given
me. Twice, my brothers, you have seen a white man. These men were all
white and as many as have I fingers and toes. And when I saw they were
full of kindness, I took heart, and I resolved to bring away with me
report of all that I saw. And they taught me the work they did, and
gave me good food and a place to sleep.
"And day after day we went over the sea, and each day the head man
drew the sun down out of the sky and made it tell where we were. And
when the waves were kind, we hunted the fur seal and I marvelled much,
for always did they fling the meat and the fat away and save only the
skin."
