The tide was out.  A full hundred yards of soft mud intervened between
the boat-wharf and the water.  I pulled up my centreboard, ran full tilt
into the mud, took in sail, and, standing in the stern, as I had often
done at low tide, I began to shove the skiff with an oar.  It was then
that my correlations began to break down.  I lost my balance and pitched
head-foremost into the ooze.  Then, and for the first time, as I
floundered to my feet covered with slime, the blood running down my arms
from a scrape against a barnacled stake, I knew that I was drunk.  But
what of it? Across the channel two strong sailormen lay unconscious in
their bunks where I had drunk them.  I WAS a man.  I was still on my
legs, if they were knee-deep in mud.  I disdained to get back into the
skiff.  I waded through the mud, shoving the skiff before me and
yammering the chant of my manhood to the world.
I paid for it.  I was sick for a couple of days, meanly sick, and my arms
were painfully poisoned from the barnacle scratches.  For a week I could
not use them, and it was a torture to put on and take off my clothes.
I swore, "Never again!" The game wasn't worth it.  The price was too
stiff.  I had no moral qualms.  My revulsion was purely physical.  No
exalted moments were worth such hours of misery and wretchedness.  When I
got back to my skiff, I shunned the Idler.  I would cross the opposite
side of the channel to go around her.  Scotty had disappeared.  The
harpooner was still about, but him I avoided.  Once, when he landed on
the boat-wharf, I hid in a shed so as to escape seeing him.  I was afraid
he would propose some more drinking, maybe have a flask full of whisky in
his pocket.
And yet--and here enters the necromancy of John Barleycorn--that
afternoon's drunk on the Idler had been a purple passage flung into the
monotony of my days.  It was memorable.  My mind dwelt on it continually.
I went over the details, over and over again.  Among other things, I had
got into the cogs and springs of men's actions.  I had seen Scotty weep
about his own worthlessness and the sad case of his Edinburgh mother who
was a lady.  The harpooner had told me terribly wonderful things of
himself.  I had caught a myriad enticing and inflammatory hints of a
world beyond my world, and for which I was certainly as fitted as the two
lads who had drunk with me.  I had got behind men's souls.  I had got
behind my own soul and found unguessed potencies and greatnesses.
Yes, that day stood out above all my other days.  To this day it so
stands out.  The memory of it is branded in my brain.  But the price
exacted was too high.  I refused to play and pay, and returned to my
cannon-balls and taffy-slabs.  The point is that all the chemistry of my
healthy, normal body drove me away from alcohol.  The stuff didn't agree
with me.  It was abominable.  But, despite this, circumstance was to
continue to drive me toward John Barleycorn, to drive me again and again,
until, after long years, the time should come when I would look up John
Barleycorn in every haunt of men--look him up and hail him gladly as
benefactor and friend.  And detest and hate him all the time.  Yes, he is
a strange friend, John Barleycorn.
