Now, although I had been eager to see Black Matt kill Tom Morrisey that
morning, I did not care to furnish to the dancers the spectacle of a
knife sticking in my back.  I had not yet learned to distinguish between
facts and theories.  My faith was implicit in my mother's exposition of
the Italian character.  Besides, I had some glimmering inkling of the
sacredness of hospitality.  Here was a treacherous, sensitive, murderous
Italian, offering me hospitality.  I had been taught to believe that if I
offended him he would strike at me with a knife precisely as a horse
kicked out when one got too close to its heels and worried it.  Then,
too, this Italian, Peter, had those terrible black eyes I had heard my
mother talk about.  They were eyes different from the eyes I knew, from
the blues and greys and hazels of my own family, from the pale and genial
blues of the Irish.  Perhaps Peter had had a few drinks.  At any rate,
his eyes were brilliantly black and sparkling with devilry.  They were
the mysterious, the unknown, and who was I, a seven-year-old, to analyse
them and know their prankishness? In them I visioned sudden death, and I
declined the wine half-heartedly.  The expression in his eyes changed.
They grew stern and imperious as he shoved the tumbler of wine closer.
What could I do? I have faced real death since in my life, but never have
I known the fear of death as I knew it then.  I put the glass to my lips,
and Peter's eyes relented.  I knew he would not kill me just then.  That
was a relief.  But the wine was not.  It was cheap, new wine, bitter and
sour, made of the leavings and scrapings of the vineyards and the vats,
and it tasted far worse than beer.  There is only one way to take
medicine, and that is to take it.  And that is the way I took that wine.
I threw my head back and gulped it down.  I had to gulp again and hold
the poison down, for poison it was to my child's tissues and membranes.
Looking back now, I can realise that Peter was astounded.  He half-filled
a second tumbler and shoved it across the table.  Frozen with fear, in
despair at the fate which had befallen me, I gulped the second glass down
like the first.  This was too much for Peter.  He must share the infant
prodigy he had discovered.  He called Dominick, a young moustached
Italian, to see the sight.  This time it was a full tumbler that was
given me.  One will do anything to live.  I gripped myself, mastered the
qualms that rose in my throat, and downed the stuff.
Dominick had never seen an infant of such heroic calibre.  Twice again he
refilled the tumbler, each time to the brim, and watched it disappear
down my throat.  By this time my exploits were attracting attention.
Middle-aged Italian labourers, old-country peasants who did not talk
English, and who could not dance with the Irish girls, surrounded me.
They were swarthy and wild-looking; they wore belts and red shirts; and I
knew they carried knives; and they ringed me around like a pirate chorus.
And Peter and Dominick made me show off for them.
