By the time the _Athenian_ arrived in Seattle, Churchill had fully
recuperated, and he went ashore with Bondell's grip in his hand.  He felt
proud of that grip.  To him it stood for achievement and integrity and
trust.  "I've delivered the goods," was the way he expressed these
various high terms to himself.  It was early in the evening, and he went
straight to Bondell's home.  Louis Bondell was glad to see him, shaking
hands with both hands at the same time and dragging him into the house.
"Oh, thanks, old man; it was good of you to bring it out," Bondell said
when he received the gripsack.
He tossed it carelessly upon a couch, and Churchill noted with an
appreciative eye the rebound of its weight from the springs.  Bondell was
volleying him with questions.
"How did you make out?  How're the boys?  What became of Bill Smithers?
Is Del Bishop still with Pierce?  Did he sell my dogs?  How did Sulphur
Bottom show up?  You're looking fine.  What steamer did you come out on?"
To all of which Churchill gave answer, till half an hour had gone by and
the first lull in the conversation had arrived.
"Hadn't you better take a look at it?" he suggested, nodding his head at
the gripsack.
"Oh, it's all right," Bondell answered.  "Did Mitchell's dump turn out as
much as he expected?"
"I think you'd better look at it," Churchill insisted.  "When I deliver a
thing, I want to be satisfied that it's all right.  There's always the
chance that somebody might have got into it when I was asleep, or
something."
"It's nothing important, old man," Bondell answered, with a laugh.
"Nothing important," Churchill echoed in a faint, small voice.  Then he
spoke with decision: "Louis, what's in that bag?  I want to know."
Louis looked at him curiously, then left the room and returned with a
bunch of keys.  He inserted his hand and drew out a heavy Colt's
revolver.  Next came out a few boxes of ammunition for the revolver and
several boxes of Winchester cartridges.
Churchill took the gripsack and looked into it.  Then he turned it upside
down and shook it gently.
"The gun's all rusted," Bondell said.  "Must have been out in the rain."
"Yes," Churchill answered.  "Too bad it got wet.  I guess I was a bit
careless."
He got up and went outside.  Ten minutes later Louis Bondell went out and
found him on the steps, sitting down, elbows on knees and chin on hands,
gazing steadfastly out into the darkness.
TO BUILD A FIRE
Day had broken cold and grey, exceedingly cold and grey, when the man
turned aside from the main Yukon trail and climbed the high earth-bank,
where a dim and little-travelled trail led eastward through the fat
spruce timberland.  It was a steep bank, and he paused for breath at the
top, excusing the act to himself by looking at his watch.  It was nine
o'clock.  There was no sun nor hint of sun, though there was not a cloud
in the sky.  It was a clear day, and yet there seemed an intangible pall
over the face of things, a subtle gloom that made the day dark, and that
was due to the absence of sun.  This fact did not worry the man.  He was
used to the lack of sun.  It had been days since he had seen the sun, and
he knew that a few more days must pass before that cheerful orb, due
south, would just peep above the sky-line and dip immediately from view.
