"Who was Lost Face?" he could hear, in anticipation, some insolent young
buck demand, "Oh, Lost Face," would be the answer, "he who once was
Makamuk in the days before he cut off the fur-thief's head."
TRUST
All lines had been cast off, and the _Seattle No._ 4 was pulling slowly
out from the shore.  Her decks were piled high with freight and baggage,
and swarmed with a heterogeneous company of Indians, dogs, and
dog-mushers, prospectors, traders, and homeward-bound gold-seekers.  A
goodly portion of Dawson was lined up on the bank, saying good-bye.  As
the gang-plank came in and the steamer nosed into the stream, the clamour
of farewell became deafening.  Also, in that eleventh moment, everybody
began to remember final farewell messages and to shout them back and
forth across the widening stretch of water.  Louis Bondell, curling his
yellow moustache with one hand and languidly waving the other hand to his
friends on shore, suddenly remembered something and sprang to the rail.
"Oh, Fred!" he bawled.  "Oh, Fred!"
The "Fred" desired thrust a strapping pair of shoulders through the
forefront of the crowd on the bank and tried to catch Louis Bondell's
message.  The latter grew red in the face with vain vociferation.  Still
the water widened between steamboat and shore.
"Hey, you, Captain Scott!" he yelled at the pilot-house.  "Stop the
boat!"
The gongs clanged, and the big stern wheel reversed, then stopped.  All
hands on steamboat and on bank took advantage of this respite to exchange
final, new, and imperative farewells.  More futile than ever was Louis
Bondell's effort to make himself heard.  The _Seattle No._ 4 lost way and
drifted down-stream, and Captain Scott had to go ahead and reverse a
second time.  His head disappeared inside the pilot-house, coming into
view a moment later behind a big megaphone.
Now Captain Scott had a remarkable voice, and the "Shut up!" he launched
at the crowd on deck and on shore could have been heard at the top of
Moosehide Mountain and as far as Klondike City.  This official
remonstrance from the pilot-house spread a film of silence over the
tumult.
"Now, what do you want to say?" Captain Scott demanded.
"Tell Fred Churchill--he's on the bank there--tell him to go to
Macdonald.  It's in his safe--a small gripsack of mine.  Tell him to get
it and bring it out when he comes."
In the silence Captain Scott bellowed the message ashore through the
megaphone:--
"You, Fred Churchill, go to Macdonald--in his safe--small
gripsack--belongs to Louis Bondell--important!  Bring it out when you
come!  Got it!"
Churchill waved his hand in token that he had got it.  In truth, had
Macdonald, half a mile away, opened his window, he'd have got it, too.
The tumult of farewell rose again, the gongs clanged, and the _Seattle
No._ 4 went ahead, swung out into the stream, turned on her heel, and
headed down the Yukon, Bondell and Churchill waving farewell and mutual
affection to the last.
That was in midsummer.  In the fall of the year, the _W. H. Willis_
started up the Yukon with two hundred homeward-bound pilgrims on board.
Among them was Churchill.  In his state-room, in the middle of a
clothes-bag, was Louis Bondell's grip.  It was a small, stout leather
affair, and its weight of forty pounds always made Churchill nervous when
he wandered too far from it.  The man in the adjoining state-room had a
treasure of gold-dust hidden similarly in a clothes-bag, and the pair of
them ultimately arranged to stand watch and watch.  While one went down
to eat, the other kept an eye on the two state-room doors.  When
Churchill wanted to take a hand at whist, the other man mounted guard,
and when the other man wanted to relax his soul, Churchill read
four-months' old newspapers on a camp stool between the two doors.
