He plunged in among the big spruce trees.  The trail was faint.  A foot
of snow had fallen since the last sled had passed over, and he was glad
he was without a sled, travelling light.  In fact, he carried nothing but
the lunch wrapped in the handkerchief.  He was surprised, however, at the
cold.  It certainly was cold, he concluded, as he rubbed his numbed nose
and cheek-bones with his mittened hand.  He was a warm-whiskered man, but
the hair on his face did not protect the high cheek-bones and the eager
nose that thrust itself aggressively into the frosty air.
At the man's heels trotted a dog, a big native husky, the proper
wolf-dog, grey-coated and without any visible or temperamental difference
from its brother, the wild wolf.  The animal was depressed by the
tremendous cold.  It knew that it was no time for travelling.  Its
instinct told it a truer tale than was told to the man by the man's
judgment.  In reality, it was not merely colder than fifty below zero; it
was colder than sixty below, than seventy below.  It was seventy-five
below zero.  Since the freezing-point is thirty-two above zero, it meant
that one hundred and seven degrees of frost obtained.  The dog did not
know anything about thermometers.  Possibly in its brain there was no
sharp consciousness of a condition of very cold such as was in the man's
brain.  But the brute had its instinct.  It experienced a vague but
menacing apprehension that subdued it and made it slink along at the
man's heels, and that made it question eagerly every unwonted movement of
the man as if expecting him to go into camp or to seek shelter somewhere
and build a fire.  The dog had learned fire, and it wanted fire, or else
to burrow under the snow and cuddle its warmth away from the air.
The frozen moisture of its breathing had settled on its fur in a fine
powder of frost, and especially were its jowls, muzzle, and eyelashes
whitened by its crystalled breath.  The man's red beard and moustache
were likewise frosted, but more solidly, the deposit taking the form of
ice and increasing with every warm, moist breath he exhaled.  Also, the
man was chewing tobacco, and the muzzle of ice held his lips so rigidly
that he was unable to clear his chin when he expelled the juice.  The
result was that a crystal beard of the colour and solidity of amber was
increasing its length on his chin.  If he fell down it would shatter
itself, like glass, into brittle fragments.  But he did not mind the
appendage.  It was the penalty all tobacco-chewers paid in that country,
and he had been out before in two cold snaps.  They had not been so cold
as this, he knew, but by the spirit thermometer at Sixty Mile he knew
they had been registered at fifty below and at fifty-five.
He held on through the level stretch of woods for several miles, crossed
a wide flat of nigger-heads, and dropped down a bank to the frozen bed of
a small stream.  This was Henderson Creek, and he knew he was ten miles
from the forks.  He looked at his watch.  It was ten o'clock.  He was
making four miles an hour, and he calculated that he would arrive at the
forks at half-past twelve.  He decided to celebrate that event by eating
his lunch there.
