He plodded on for half an hour, when the hallucination arose again.  Again
he fought it, and still it persisted, till for very relief he opened his
rifle to unconvince himself.  At times his mind wandered farther afield,
and he plodded on, a mere automaton, strange conceits and whimsicalities
gnawing at his brain like worms.  But these excursions out of the real
were of brief duration, for ever the pangs of the hunger-bite called him
back.  He was jerked back abruptly once from such an excursion by a sight
that caused him nearly to faint.  He reeled and swayed, doddering like a
drunken man to keep from falling.  Before him stood a horse.  A horse!  He
could not believe his eyes.  A thick mist was in them, intershot with
sparkling points of light.  He rubbed his eyes savagely to clear his
vision, and beheld, not a horse, but a great brown bear.  The animal was
studying him with bellicose curiosity.
The man had brought his gun halfway to his shoulder before he realized.
He lowered it and drew his hunting-knife from its beaded sheath at his
hip.  Before him was meat and life.  He ran his thumb along the edge of
his knife.  It was sharp.  The point was sharp.  He would fling himself
upon the bear and kill it.  But his heart began its warning thump, thump,
thump.  Then followed the wild upward leap and tattoo of flutters, the
pressing as of an iron band about his forehead, the creeping of the
dizziness into his brain.
His desperate courage was evicted by a great surge of fear.  In his
weakness, what if the animal attacked him?  He drew himself up to his
most imposing stature, gripping the knife and staring hard at the bear.
The bear advanced clumsily a couple of steps, reared up, and gave vent to
a tentative growl.  If the man ran, he would run after him; but the man
did not run.  He was animated now with the courage of fear.  He, too,
growled, savagely, terribly, voicing the fear that is to life germane and
that lies twisted about life's deepest roots.
The bear edged away to one side, growling menacingly, himself appalled by
this mysterious creature that appeared upright and unafraid.  But the man
did not move.  He stood like a statue till the danger was past, when he
yielded to a fit of trembling and sank down into the wet moss.
He pulled himself together and went on, afraid now in a new way.  It was
not the fear that he should die passively from lack of food, but that he
should be destroyed violently before starvation had exhausted the last
particle of the endeavor in him that made toward surviving.  There were
the wolves.  Back and forth across the desolation drifted their howls,
weaving the very air into a fabric of menace that was so tangible that he
found himself, arms in the air, pressing it back from him as it might be
the walls of a wind-blown tent.
