"I tell you that precious brother of yours was drunk."
His voice was cold, sharp, and final, his lips stamping the enunciation
of each word like the die of a machine.  His wife sighed and remained
silent.  She was a large, stout woman, always dressed slatternly and
always tired from the burdens of her flesh, her work, and her husband.
"He's got it in him, I tell you, from his father," Mr. Higginbotham went
on accusingly.  "An' he'll croak in the gutter the same way.  You know
that."
She nodded, sighed, and went on stitching.  They were agreed that Martin
had come home drunk.  They did not have it in their souls to know beauty,
or they would have known that those shining eyes and that glowing face
betokened youth's first vision of love.
"Settin' a fine example to the children," Mr. Higginbotham snorted,
suddenly, in the silence for which his wife was responsible and which he
resented.  Sometimes he almost wished she would oppose him more.  "If he
does it again, he's got to get out.  Understand!  I won't put up with his
shinanigan--debotchin' innocent children with his boozing."  Mr.
Higginbotham liked the word, which was a new one in his vocabulary,
recently gleaned from a newspaper column.  "That's what it is,
debotchin'--there ain't no other name for it."
Still his wife sighed, shook her head sorrowfully, and stitched on.  Mr.
Higginbotham resumed the newspaper.
"Has he paid last week's board?" he shot across the top of the newspaper.
She nodded, then added, "He still has some money."
"When is he goin' to sea again?"
"When his pay-day's spent, I guess," she answered.  "He was over to San
Francisco yesterday looking for a ship.  But he's got money, yet, an'
he's particular about the kind of ship he signs for."
"It's not for a deck-swab like him to put on airs," Mr. Higginbotham
snorted.  "Particular!  Him!"
"He said something about a schooner that's gettin' ready to go off to
some outlandish place to look for buried treasure, that he'd sail on her
if his money held out."
"If he only wanted to steady down, I'd give him a job drivin' the wagon,"
her husband said, but with no trace of benevolence in his voice.  "Tom's
quit."
His wife looked alarm and interrogation.
"Quit to-night.  Is goin' to work for Carruthers.  They paid 'm more'n I
could afford."
"I told you you'd lose 'm," she cried out.  "He was worth more'n you was
giving him."
"Now look here, old woman," Higginbotham bullied, "for the thousandth
time I've told you to keep your nose out of the business.  I won't tell
you again."
"I don't care," she sniffled.  "Tom was a good boy."  Her husband glared
at her.  This was unqualified defiance.
"If that brother of yours was worth his salt, he could take the wagon,"
he snorted.
"He pays his board, just the same," was the retort.  "An' he's my
brother, an' so long as he don't owe you money you've got no right to be
jumping on him all the time.  I've got some feelings, if I have been
married to you for seven years."
