He took the Browning and the Swinburne from the chair and kissed them.
Just the same, she told me to call again, he thought.  He took another
look at himself in the glass, and said aloud, with great solemnity:-
"Martin Eden, the first thing to-morrow you go to the free library an'
read up on etiquette.  Understand!"
He turned off the gas, and the springs shrieked under his body.
"But you've got to quit cussin', Martin, old boy; you've got to quit
cussin'," he said aloud.
Then he dozed off to sleep and to dream dreams that for madness and
audacity rivalled those of poppy-eaters.
CHAPTER V
He awoke next morning from rosy scenes of dream to a steamy atmosphere
that smelled of soapsuds and dirty clothes, and that was vibrant with the
jar and jangle of tormented life.  As he came out of his room he heard
the slosh of water, a sharp exclamation, and a resounding smack as his
sister visited her irritation upon one of her numerous progeny.  The
squall of the child went through him like a knife.  He was aware that the
whole thing, the very air he breathed, was repulsive and mean.  How
different, he thought, from the atmosphere of beauty and repose of the
house wherein Ruth dwelt.  There it was all spiritual.  Here it was all
material, and meanly material.
"Come here, Alfred," he called to the crying child, at the same time
thrusting his hand into his trousers pocket, where he carried his money
loose in the same large way that he lived life in general.  He put a
quarter in the youngster's hand and held him in his arms a moment,
soothing his sobs.  "Now run along and get some candy, and don't forget
to give some to your brothers and sisters.  Be sure and get the kind that
lasts longest."
His sister lifted a flushed face from the wash-tub and looked at him.
"A nickel'd ha' ben enough," she said.  "It's just like you, no idea of
the value of money.  The child'll eat himself sick."
"That's all right, sis," he answered jovially.  "My money'll take care of
itself.  If you weren't so busy, I'd kiss you good morning."
He wanted to be affectionate to this sister, who was good, and who, in
her way, he knew, loved him.  But, somehow, she grew less herself as the
years went by, and more and more baffling.  It was the hard work, the
many children, and the nagging of her husband, he decided, that had
changed her.  It came to him, in a flash of fancy, that her nature seemed
taking on the attributes of stale vegetables, smelly soapsuds, and of the
greasy dimes, nickels, and quarters she took in over the counter of the
store.
"Go along an' get your breakfast," she said roughly, though secretly
pleased.  Of all her wandering brood of brothers he had always been her
favorite.  "I declare I _will_ kiss you," she said, with a sudden stir at
her heart.
