The gang-plank being on the port side, Dag Daughtry paddled around to the
starboard and brought the canoe to a stop under a certain open port.
"Kwaque!" he called softly, once, and twice.
At the second call the light of the port was obscured apparently by a
head that piped down in a thin squeak.
"Me stop 'm, marster."
"One fella dog stop 'm along you," the steward whispered up.  "Keep 'm
door shut.  You wait along me.  Stand by!  Now!"
With a quick catch and lift, he passed Michael up and into unseen hands
outstretched from the iron wall of the ship, and paddled ahead to an open
cargo port.  Dipping into his tobacco pocket, he thrust a loose handful
of sticks into the ancient's hand and shoved the canoe adrift with no
thought of how its helpless occupant would ever reach shore.
The old man did not touch the paddle, and he was unregardless of the
lofty-sided steamer as the canoe slipped down the length of it into the
darkness astern.  He was too occupied in counting the wealth of tobacco
showered upon him.  No easy task, his counting.  Five was the limit of
his numerals.  When he had counted five, he began over again and counted
a second five.  Three fives he found in all, and two sticks over; and
thus, at the end of it, he possessed as definite a knowledge of the
number of sticks as would be possessed by the average white man by means
of the single number _seventeen_.
More it was, far more, than his avarice had demanded.  Yet he was
unsurprised.  Nothing white men did could surprise.  Had it been two
sticks instead of seventeen, he would have been equally unsurprised.
Since all acts of white men were surprises, the only surprise of action
they could achieve for a black man would be the doing of an unsurprising
thing.
Paddling, wheezing, resting, oblivious of the shadow-world of the white
men, knowing only the reality of Tulagi Mountain cutting its crest-line
blackly across the dim radiance of the star-sprinkled sky, the reality of
the sea and of the canoe he so feebly urged across it, and the reality of
his fading strength and of the death into which he would surely end, the
ancient black man slowly made his shoreward way.
CHAPTER III
In the meanwhile, Michael.  Lifted through the air, exchanged into
invisible hands that drew him through a narrow diameter of brass into a
lighted room, Michael looked about him in expectancy of Jerry.  But
Jerry, at that moment, lay cuddled beside Villa Kennan's sleeping-cot on
the slant deck of the _Ariel_, as that trim craft, the Shortlands astern
and New Guinea dead ahead, heeled her scuppers a-whisper and garrulous to
the sea-welter alongside as she logged her eleven knots under the press
of the freshening trades.  Instead of Jerry, from whom he had last parted
on board a boat, Michael saw Kwaque.
Kwaque?  Well, Kwaque was Kwaque, an individual, more unlike all other
men than most men are unlike one another.  No queerer estray ever drifted
along the stream of life.  Seventeen years old he was, as men measure
time; but a century was measured in his lean-lined face, his wrinkled
forehead, his hollowed temples, and his deep-sunk eyes.  From his thin
legs, fragile-looking as windstraws, the bones of which were sheathed in
withered skin with apparently no muscle padding in between--from such
frail stems sprouted the torso of a fat man.  The huge and protuberant
stomach was amply supported by wide and massive hips, and the shoulders
were broad as those of a Hercules.  But, beheld sidewise, there was no
depth to those shoulders and the top of the chest.  Almost, at that part
of his anatomy, he seemed builded in two dimensions.  Thin his arms were
as his legs, and, as Michael first beheld him, he had all the seeming of
a big-bellied black spider.
