But the surprise had just begun. The manager begged to be introduced
to her sister, chatted entertainingly with the pair of them, and strove
greatly and anxiously to be agreeable. He even went so far as to give
Edna a dressing room to herself, to the unspeakable envy of the three
other amateur ladies of previous acquaintance. Edna was nonplussed,
and it was not till she met Charley Welsh in the passage that light was
thrown on the mystery.
"Hello!" he greeted her. "On Easy Street, eh? Everything slidin' your
way."
She smiled brightly.
"Thinks yer a female reporter, sure. I almost split when I saw'm layin'
himself out sweet an' pleasin'. Honest, now, that ain't yer graft, is
it?"
"I told you my experience with editors," she parried. "And honest now,
it was honest, too."
But the Only Charley Welsh shook his head dubiously. "Not that I care
a rap," he declared. "And if you are, just gimme a couple of lines of
notice, the right kind, good ad, you know. And if yer not, why yer all
right anyway. Yer not our class, that's straight."
After her turn, which she did this time with the nerve of an old
campaigner, the manager returned to the charge; and after saying nice
things and being generally nice himself, he came to the point.
"You'll treat us well, I hope," he said insinuatingly. "Do the right
thing by us, and all that?"
"Oh," she answered innocently, "you couldn't persuade me to do another
turn; I know I seemed to take and that you'd like to have me, but I
really, really can't."
"You know what I mean," he said, with a touch of his old bulldozing
manner.
"No, I really won't," she persisted. "Vaudeville's too--too wearing on
the nerves, my nerves, at any rate."
Whereat he looked puzzled and doubtful, and forbore to press the point
further.
But on Monday morning, when she came to his office to get her pay for
the two turns, it was he who puzzled her.
"You surely must have mistaken me," he lied glibly. "I remember saying
something about paying your car fare. We always do this, you know, but
we never, never pay amateurs. That would take the life and sparkle out
of the whole thing. No, Charley Welsh was stringing you. He gets paid
nothing for his turns. No amateur gets paid. The idea is ridiculous.
However, here's fifty cents. It will pay your sister's car fare also.
And,"--very suavely,--"speaking for the Loops, permit me to thank you
for the kind and successful contribution of your services."
That afternoon, true to her promise to Max Irwin, she placed her
typewritten copy into his hands. And while he ran over it, he nodded his
head from time to time, and maintained a running fire of commendatory
remarks: "Good!--that's it!--that's the stuff!--psychology's all
right!--the very idea!--you've caught it!--excellent!--missed it a
bit here, but it'll go--that's vigorous!--strong!--vivid!--pictures!
pictures!--excellent!--most excellent!"
And when he had run down to the bottom of the last page, holding out
his hand: "My dear Miss Wyman, I congratulate you. I must say you have
exceeded my expectations, which, to say the least, were large. You are
a journalist, a natural journalist. You've got the grip, and you're sure
to get on. The Intelligencer will take it, without doubt, and take you
too. They'll have to take you. If they don't, some of the other papers
will get you."
