    "MR. WALTER BASSETT,
    "DEAR SIR:
    "I am inviting you, with nine of your fellow-captains of industry, to
    visit me here on my island for the purpose of considering plans for
    the reconstruction of society upon a more rational basis.  Up to the
    present, social evolution has been a blind and aimless, blundering
    thing.  The time has come for a change.  Man has risen from the
    vitalized slime of the primeval sea to the mastery of matter; but he
    has not yet mastered society.  Man is to-day as much the slave to his
    collective stupidity, as a hundred thousand generations ago he was a
    slave to matter.
    "There are two theoretical methods whereby man may become the master
    of society, and make of society an intelligent and efficacious device
    for the pursuit and capture of happiness and laughter.  The first
    theory advances the proposition that no government can be wiser or
    better than the people that compose that government; that reform and
    development must spring from the individual; that in so far as the
    individuals become wiser and better, by that much will their
    government become wiser and better; in short, that the majority of
    individuals must become wiser and better, before their government
    becomes wiser and better.  The mob, the political convention, the
    abysmal brutality and stupid ignorance of all concourses of people,
    give the lie to this theory.  In a mob the collective intelligence
    and mercy is that of the least intelligent and most brutal members
    that compose the mob.  On the other hand, a thousand passengers will
    surrender themselves to the wisdom and discretion of the captain,
    when their ship is in a storm on the sea.  In such matter, he is the
    wisest and most experienced among them.
    "The second theory advances the proposition that the majority of the
    people are not pioneers, that they are weighted down by the inertia
    of the established; that the government that is representative of
    them represents only their feebleness, and futility, and brutishness;
    that this blind thing called government is not the serf of their
    wills, but that they are the serfs of it; in short, speaking always
    of the great mass, that they do not make government, but that
    government makes them, and that government is and has been a stupid
    and awful monster, misbegotten of the glimmerings of intelligence
    that come from the inertia-crushed mass.
    "Personally, I incline to the second theory.  Also, I am impatient.
    For a hundred thousand generations, from the first social groups of
    our savage forbears, government has remained a monster.  To-day, the
    inertia-crushed mass has less laughter in it than ever before.  In
    spite of man's mastery of matter, human suffering and misery and
    degradation mar the fair world.
    "Wherefore I have decided to step in and become captain of this
    world-ship for a while.  I have the intelligence and the wide vision
    of the skilled expert.  Also, I have the power.  I shall be obeyed.
    The men of all the world shall perform my bidding and make
    governments so that they shall become laughter-producers.  These
    modelled governments I have in mind shall not make the people happy,
    wise, and noble by decree; but they shall give opportunity for the
    people to become happy, wise, and noble.
