    "Whoso has power can command his fellows.  By virtue of that military
    device known as the phalanx, Alexander conquered his bit of the
    world.  By virtue of that chemical device, gunpowder, Cortes with his
    several hundred cut-throats conquered the empire of the Montezumas.
    Now I am in possession of a device that is all my own.  In the course
    of a century not more than half a dozen fundamental discoveries or
    inventions are made.  I have made such an invention.  The possession
    of it gives me the mastery of the world.  I shall use this invention,
    not for commercial exploitation, but for the good of humanity.  For
    that purpose I want help--willing agents, obedient hands; and I am
    strong enough to compel the service.  I am taking the shortest way,
    though I am in no hurry.  I shall not clutter my speed with haste.
    "The incentive of material gain developed man from the savage to the
    semi-barbarian he is to-day.  This incentive has been a useful device
    for the development of the human; but it has now fulfilled its
    function and is ready to be cast aside into the scrap-heap of
    rudimentary vestiges such as gills in the throat and belief in the
    divine right of kings.  Of course you do not think so; but I do not
    see that that will prevent you from aiding me to fling the
    anachronism into the scrap-heap.  For I tell you now that the time
    has come when mere food and shelter and similar sordid things shall
    be automatic, as free and easy and involuntary of access as the air.
    I shall make them automatic, what of my discovery and the power that
    discovery gives me.  And with food and shelter automatic, the
    incentive of material gain passes away from the world for ever.  With
    food and shelter automatic, the higher incentives will universally
    obtain--the spiritual, aesthetic, and intellectual incentives that
    will tend to develop and make beautiful and noble body, mind, and
    spirit.  Then all the world will be dominated by happiness and
    laughter.  It will be the reign of universal laughter.
    "Yours for that day,
                                                                 "GOLIAH."
Still the world would not believe.  The ten politicians were at
Washington, so that they did not have the opportunity of being convinced
that Bassett had had, and not one of them took the trouble to journey out
to San Francisco to make the opportunity.  As for Goliah, he was hailed
by the newspapers as another Tom Lawson with a panacea; and there were
specialists in mental disease who, by analysis of Goliah's letters,
proved conclusively that he was a lunatic.
The yacht _Energon_ arrived in the harbour of San Francisco on the
afternoon of April 5, and Bassett came ashore.  But the _Energon_ did not
sail next day, for not one of the ten summoned politicians had elected to
make the journey to Palgrave Island.  The newsboys, however, called
"Extra" that day in all the cities.  The ten politicians were dead.  The
yacht, lying peacefully at anchor in the harbour, became the centre of
excited interest.  She was surrounded by a flotilla of launches and
rowboats, and many tugs and steamboats ran excursions to her.  While the
rabble was firmly kept off, the proper authorities and even reporters
were permitted to board her.  The mayor of San Francisco and the chief of
police reported that nothing suspicious was to be seen upon her, and the
port authorities announced that her papers were correct and in order in
every detail.  Many photographs and columns of descriptive matter were
run in the newspapers.
