And over the coffee he gave his name and learned hers--Joy Gastell.
Also, he learned that she was an old-timer in the country.  She had
been born in a trading post on the Great Slave, and as a child had
crossed the Rockies with her father and come down to the Yukon.  She
was going in, she said, with her father, who had been delayed by
business in Seattle, and who had then been wrecked on the ill-fated
Chanter and carried back to Puget Sound by the rescuing steamer.
In view of the fact that she was still in her blankets, he did not make
it a long conversation, and, heroically declining a second cup of
coffee, he removed himself and his quarter of a ton of baggage from her
tent.  Further, he took several conclusions away with him: she had a
fetching name and fetching eyes; could not be more than twenty, or
twenty-one or -two; her father must be French; she had a will of her
own and temperament to burn; and she had been educated elsewhere than
on the frontier.
VI.
Over the ice-scoured rocks, and above the timber-line, the trail ran
around Crater Lake and gained the rocky defile that led toward Happy
Camp and the first scrub pines.  To pack his heavy outfit around would
take days of heart-breaking toil.  On the lake was a canvas boat
employed in freighting.  Two trips with it, in two hours, would see him
and his ton across.  But he was broke, and the ferryman charged forty
dollars a ton.
"You've got a gold-mine, my friend, in that dinky boat," Kit said to
the ferryman.  "Do you want another gold-mine?"
"Show me," was the answer.
"I'll sell it to you for the price of ferrying my outfit.  It's an
idea, not patented, and you can jump the deal as soon as I tell you it.
Are you game?"
The ferryman said he was, and Kit liked his looks.
"Very well.  You see that glacier.  Take a pick-axe and wade into it.
In a day you can have a decent groove from top to bottom.  See the
point?  The Chilcoot and Crater Lake Consolidated Chute Corporation,
Limited.  You can charge fifty cents a hundred, get a hundred tons a
day, and have no work to do but collect the coin."
Two hours later, Kit's ton was across the lake, and he had gained three
days on himself.  And when John Bellew overtook him, he was well along
toward Deep Lake, another volcanic pit filled with glacial water.
VII.
The last pack, from Long Lake to Linderman, was three miles, and the
trail, if trail it could be called, rose up over a thousand-foot
hogback, dropped down a scramble of slippery rocks, and crossed a wide
stretch of swamp.  John Bellew remonstrated when he saw Kit arise with
a hundred pounds in the straps and pick up a fifty-pound sack of flour
and place it on top of the pack against the back of his neck.
