But she did not have any time to waste on him. Whether she swam or not,
the current drew away from the land just the same. A half hour went
by, and the shark began to grow bolder. Seeing no harm in her he drew
closer, in narrowing circles, cocking his eyes at her impudently as
he slid past. Sooner or later, she knew well enough, he would get up
sufficient courage to dash at her. She resolved to play first. It was a
desperate act she meditated. She was an old woman, alone in the sea and
weak from starvation and hardship; and yet she, in the face of this sea
tiger, must anticipate his dash by herself dashing at him. She swam on,
waiting her chance. At last he passed languidly by, barely eight feet
away. She rushed at him suddenly, feigning that she was attacking him.
He gave a wild flirt of his tail as he fled away, and his sandpaper
hide, striking her, took off her skin from elbow to shoulder. He swam
rapidly, in a widening circle, and at last disappeared.
In the hole in the sand, covered over by fragments of metal roofing,
Mapuhi and Tefara lay disputing.
"If you had done as I said," charged Tefara, for the thousandth time,
"and hidden the pearl and told no one, you would have it now."
"But Huru-Huru was with me when I opened the shell--have I not told you
so times and times and times without end?"
"And now we shall have no house. Raoul told me today that if you had not
sold the pearl to Toriki--"
"I did not sell it. Toriki robbed me."
"--that if you had not sold the pearl, he would give you five thousand
French dollars, which is ten thousand Chili."
"He has been talking to his mother," Mapuhi explained. "She has an eye
for a pearl."
"And now the pearl is lost," Tefara complained.
"It paid my debt with Toriki. That is twelve hundred I have made,
anyway."
"Toriki is dead," she cried. "They have heard no word of his schooner.
She was lost along with the Aorai and the Hira. Will Toriki pay you the
three hundred credit he promised? No, because Toriki is dead. And had
you found no pearl, would you today owe Toriki the twelve hundred? No,
because Toriki is dead, and you cannot pay dead men."
"But Levy did not pay Toriki," Mapuhi said. "He gave him a piece of
paper that was good for the money in Papeete; and now Levy is dead and
cannot pay; and Toriki is dead and the paper lost with him, and the
pearl is lost with Levy. You are right, Tefara. I have lost the pearl,
and got nothing for it. Now let us sleep."
He held up his hand suddenly and listened. From without came a noise,
as of one who breathed heavily and with pain. A hand fumbled against the
mat that served for a door.
