Mauki's ears were pierced, not in one place, nor two places, but in a
couple of dozen places. In one of the smaller holes he carried a clay
pipe. The larger holes were too large for such use. The bowl of the pipe
would have fallen through. In fact, in the largest hole in each ear
he habitually wore round wooden plugs that were an even four inches in
diameter. Roughly speaking, the circumference of said holes was twelve
and one-half inches. Mauki was catholic in his tastes. In the various
smaller holes he carried such things as empty rifle cartridges,
horseshoe nails, copper screws, pieces of string, braids of sennit,
strips of green leaf, and, in the cool of the day, scarlet hibiscus
flowers. From which it will be seen that pockets were not necessary to
his well-being. Besides, pockets were impossible, for his only wearing
apparel consisted of a piece of calico several inches wide. A pocket
knife he wore in his hair, the blade snapped down on a kinky lock. His
most prized possession was the handle of a china cup, which he suspended
from a ring of turtle-shell, which, in turn, was passed through the
partition-cartilage of his nose.
But in spite of embellishments, Mauki had a nice face. It was really
a pretty face, viewed by any standard, and for a Melanesian it was a
remarkably good-looking face. Its one fault was its lack of strength. It
was softly effeminate, almost girlish. The features were small, regular,
and delicate. The chin was weak, and the mouth was weak. There was no
strength nor character in the jaws, forehead, and nose. In the eyes only
could be caught any hint of the unknown quantities that were so large a
part of his make-up and that other persons could not understand. These
unknown quantities were pluck, pertinacity, fearlessness, imagination,
and cunning; and when they found expression in some consistent and
striking action, those about him were astounded.
Mauki's father was chief over the village at Port Adams, and thus, by
birth a salt-water man, Mauki was half amphibian. He knew the way of the
fishes and oysters, and the reef was an open book to him. Canoes, also,
he knew. He learned to swim when he was a year old. At seven years he
could hold his breath a full minute and swim straight down to bottom
through thirty feet of water. And at seven years he was stolen by
the bushmen, who cannot even swim and who are afraid of salt water.
Thereafter Mauki saw the sea only from a distance, through rifts in the
jungle and from open spaces on the high mountain sides. He became the
slave of old Fanfoa, head chief over a score of scattered bush-villages
on the range-lips of Malaita, the smoke of which, on calm mornings,
is about the only evidence the seafaring white men have of the teeming
interior population. For the whites do not penetrate Malaita. They tried
it once, in the days when the search was on for gold, but they always
left their heads behind to grin from the smoky rafters of the bushmen's
huts.
