“That’s remarkably like a bullet, lad,” he said reflectively.  “And it’s
a long shot Big Alec’s making.”
“And he’s using smokeless powder,” he concluded, after an examination of
the mile-distant shore.  “That’s why we can’t hear the report.”
I looked at the shore, but could see no sign of Big Alec, who was
undoubtedly hidden in some rocky nook with us at his mercy.  A third
bullet struck the water, glanced, passed singing over our heads, and
struck the water again beyond.
“I guess we’d better get out of this,” Charley remarked coolly.  “What do
you think, lad?”
I thought so, too, and said we didn’t want the line anyway.  Whereupon we
cast off and hoisted the spritsail.  The bullets ceased at once, and we
sailed away, unpleasantly confident that Big Alec was laughing at our
discomfiture.
And more than that, the next day on the fishing wharf, where we were
inspecting nets, he saw fit to laugh and sneer at us, and this before all
the fishermen.  Charley’s face went black with anger; but beyond
promising Big Alec that in the end he would surely land him behind the
bars, he controlled himself and said nothing.  The King of the Greeks
made his boast that no fish patrol had ever taken him or ever could take
him, and the fishermen cheered him and said it was true.  They grew
excited, and it looked like trouble for a while; but Big Alec asserted
his kingship and quelled them.
Carmintel also laughed at Charley, and dropped sarcastic remarks, and
made it hard for him.  But Charley refused to be angered, though he told
me in confidence that he intended to capture Big Alec if it took all the
rest of his life to accomplish it.
“I don’t know how I’ll do it,” he said, “but do it I will, as sure as I
am Charley Le Grant.  The idea will come to me at the right and proper
time, never fear.”
And at the right time it came, and most unexpectedly.  Fully a month had
passed, and we were constantly up and down the river, and down and up the
bay, with no spare moments to devote to the particular fisherman who ran
a Chinese line in the bight of Turner’s Shipyard.  We had called in at
Selby’s Smelter one afternoon, while on patrol work, when all unknown to
us our opportunity happened along.  It appeared in the guise of a
helpless yacht loaded with seasick people, so we could hardly be expected
to recognize it as the opportunity.  It was a large sloop-yacht, and it
was helpless inasmuch as the trade-wind was blowing half a gale and there
were no capable sailors aboard.
From the wharf at Selby’s we watched with careless interest the lubberly
manouvre performed of bringing the yacht to anchor, and the equally
lubberly manouvre of sending the small boat ashore.  A very
miserable-looking man in draggled ducks, after nearly swamping the boat
in the heavy seas, passed us the painter and climbed out.  He staggered
about as though the wharf were rolling, and told us his troubles, which
were the troubles of the yacht.  The only rough-weather sailor aboard,
the man on whom they all depended, had been called back to San Francisco
by a telegram, and they had attempted to continue the cruise alone.  The
high wind and big seas of San Pablo Bay had been too much for them; all
hands were sick, nobody knew anything or could do anything; and so they
had run in to the smelter either to desert the yacht or to get somebody
to bring it to Benicia.  In short, did we know of any sailors who would
bring the yacht into Benicia?
