And then, in triumph, with no more veering and yawing, we sailed into
Benicia, the King of the Greeks bound hard and fast in the cockpit, and
for the first time in his life a prisoner of the fish patrol.
A RAID ON THE OYSTER PIRATES
OF the fish patrolmen under whom we served at various times, Charley Le
Grant and I were agreed, I think, that Neil Partington was the best.  He
was neither dishonest nor cowardly; and while he demanded strict
obedience when we were under his orders, at the same time our relations
were those of easy comradeship, and he permitted us a freedom to which we
were ordinarily unaccustomed, as the present story will show.
Neil’s family lived in Oakland, which is on the Lower Bay, not more than
six miles across the water from San Francisco.  One day, while scouting
among the Chinese shrimp-catchers of Point Pedro, he received word that
his wife was very ill; and within the hour the _Reindeer_ was bowling
along for Oakland, with a stiff northwest breeze astern.  We ran up the
Oakland Estuary and came to anchor, and in the days that followed, while
Neil was ashore, we tightened up the _Reindeer’s_ rigging, overhauled the
ballast, scraped down, and put the sloop into thorough shape.
This done, time hung heavy on our hands.  Neil’s wife was dangerously
ill, and the outlook was a week’s lie-over, awaiting the crisis.  Charley
and I roamed the docks, wondering what we should do, and so came upon the
oyster fleet lying at the Oakland City Wharf.  In the main they were
trim, natty boats, made for speed and bad weather, and we sat down on the
stringer-piece of the dock to study them.
“A good catch, I guess,” Charley said, pointing to the heaps of oysters,
assorted in three sizes, which lay upon their decks.
Pedlers were backing their wagons to the edge of the wharf, and from the
bargaining and chaffering that went on, I managed to learn the selling
price of the oysters.
“That boat must have at least two hundred dollars’ worth aboard,” I
calculated.  “I wonder how long it took to get the load?”
“Three or four days,” Charley answered.  “Not bad wages for two
men—twenty-five dollars a day apiece.”
The boat we were discussing, the _Ghost_, lay directly beneath us.  Two
men composed its crew.  One was a squat, broad-shouldered fellow with
remarkably long and gorilla-like arms, while the other was tall and well
proportioned, with clear blue eyes and a mat of straight black hair.  So
unusual and striking was this combination of hair and eyes that Charley
and I remained somewhat longer than we intended.
And it was well that we did.  A stout, elderly man, with the dress and
carriage of a successful merchant, came up and stood beside us, looking
down upon the deck of the _Ghost_.  He appeared angry, and the longer he
looked the angrier he grew.
“Those are my oysters,” he said at last.  “I know they are my oysters.
You raided my beds last night and robbed me of them.”
