To my surprise, I found barely a foot of water where we had dropped
anchor in ten feet.  It was the big June run-out of the full moon, and as
the ebb had yet an hour and a half to run, I knew that our anchorage
would be dry ground before slack water.
Mr. Taft’s beds were three miles away, and for a long time we rowed
silently in the wake of the other boats, once in a while grounding and
our oar blades constantly striking bottom.  At last we came upon soft mud
covered with not more than two inches of water—not enough to float the
boats.  But the pirates at once were over the side, and by pushing and
pulling on the flat-bottomed skiffs, we moved steadily along.
The full moon was partly obscured by high-flying clouds, but the pirates
went their way with the familiarity born of long practice.  After half a
mile of the mud, we came upon a deep channel, up which we rowed, with
dead oyster shoals looming high and dry on either side.  At last we
reached the picking grounds.  Two men, on one of the shoals, hailed us
and warned us off.  But the Centipede, the Porpoise, Barchi, and Skilling
took the lead, and followed by the rest of us, at least thirty men in
half as many boats, rowed right up to the watchmen.
“You’d better slide outa this here,” Barchi said threateningly, “or we’ll
fill you so full of holes you wouldn’t float in molasses.”
The watchmen wisely retreated before so overwhelming a force, and rowed
their boat along the channel toward where the shore should be.  Besides,
it was in the plan for them to retreat.
We hauled the noses of the boats up on the shore side of a big shoal, and
all hands, with sacks, spread out and began picking.  Every now and again
the clouds thinned before the face of the moon, and we could see the big
oysters quite distinctly.  In almost no time sacks were filled and
carried back to the boats, where fresh ones were obtained.  Nicholas and
I returned often and anxiously to the boats with our little loads, but
always found some one of the pirates coming or going.
“Never mind,” he said; “no hurry.  As they pick farther and farther away,
it will take too long to carry to the boats.  Then they’ll stand the full
sacks on end and pick them up when the tide comes in and the skiffs will
float to them.”
Fully half an hour went by, and the tide had begun to flood, when this
came to pass.  Leaving the pirates at their work, we stole back to the
boats.  One by one, and noiselessly, we shoved them off and made them
fast in an awkward flotilla.  Just as we were shoving off the last skiff,
our own, one of the men came upon us.  It was Barchi.  His quick eye took
in the situation at a glance, and he sprang for us; but we went clear
with a mighty shove, and he was left floundering in the water over his
head.  As soon as he got back to the shoal he raised his voice and gave
the alarm.
