"And then it was up to me. And she waited. I don't mind confessing that
I was sorely tempted. I was half in love with her as it was. You know I
have never married. And I don't mind adding, looking back over my life,
that she is the only woman that ever affected me that way. But it was
too preposterous, the whole thing, and I lied like a gentleman. I told
her I was already married.
"'Is your wife waiting for you?' she asked.
"I said yes.
"'And she loves you?'
"I said yes.
"And that was all. She never pressed her point... except once, and then
she showed a bit of fire.
"'All I've got to do,' she said, 'is to give the word, and you don't get
away from here. If I give the word, you stay on... But I ain't going to
give it. I wouldn't want you if you didn't want to be wanted... and if
you didn't want me.'
"She went ahead and outfitted me and started me on my way.
"'It's a darned shame, stranger," she said, at parting. 'I like your
looks, and I like you. If you ever change your mind, come back.'
"Now there was one thing I wanted to do, and that was to kiss her
good-bye, but I didn't know how to go about it nor how she would take
it.--I tell you I was half in love with her. But she settled it herself.
"'Kiss me,' she said. 'Just something to go on and remember.'
"And we kissed, there in the snow, in that valley by the Rockies, and
I left her standing by the trail and went on after my dogs. I was six
weeks in crossing over the pass and coming down to the first post on
Great Slave Lake."
The brawl of the streets came up to us like a distant surf. A
steward, moving noiselessly, brought fresh siphons. And in the silence
Trefethan's voice fell like a funeral bell:
"It would have been better had I stayed. Look at me."
We saw his grizzled mustache, the bald spot on his head, the puff-sacks
under his eyes, the sagging cheeks, the heavy dewlap, the general
tiredness and staleness and fatness, all the collapse and ruin of a man
who had once been strong but who had lived too easily and too well.
"It's not too late, old man," Bardwell said, almost in a whisper.
"By God! I wish I weren't a coward!" was Trefethan's answering cry. "I
could go back to her. She's there, now. I could shape up and live many a
long year... with her... up there. To remain here is to commit suicide.
But I am an old man--forty-seven--look at me. The trouble is," he lifted
his glass and glanced at it, "the trouble is that suicide of this sort
is so easy. I am soft and tender. The thought of the long day's travel
with the dogs appalls me; the thought of the keen frost in the morning
and of the frozen sled-lashings frightens me--"
