"Ain't seen yeh since yer old man died," Tim Hagan commented.
"Well, you're seein' me now, ain't you?" was Young Dick's retort. "Say,
Tim, I come to see you on business."
"Wait till I rush the beer to the old man," said Tim, inspecting the
state of the foam in the lard-can with an experienced eye. "He'll roar
his head off if it comes in flat."
"Oh, you can shake it up," Young Dick assured him. "Only want to see
you a minute. I'm hitting the road to-night. Want to come along?"
Tim's small, blue Irish eyes flashed with interest.
"Where to?" he queried.
"Don't know. Want to come? If you do, we can talk it over after we
start? You know the ropes. What d'ye say?"
"The old man'll beat the stuffin' outa me," Tim demurred.
"He's done that before, an' you don't seem to be much missing," Young
Dick callously rejoined. "Say the word, an' we'll meet at the Ferry
Building at nine to-night. What d'ye say? I'll be there."
"Supposin' I don't show up?" Tim asked.
"I'll be on my way just the same." Young Dick turned as if to depart,
paused casually, and said over his shoulder, "Better come along."
Tim shook up the beer as he answered with equal casualness, "Aw right.
I'll be there."
After parting from Tim Hagan Young Dick spent a busy hour or so looking
up one, Marcovich, a Slavonian schoolmate whose father ran a chop-house
in which was reputed to be served the finest twenty-cent meal in the
city. Young Marcovich owed Young Dick two dollars, and Young Dick
accepted the payment of a dollar and forty cents as full quittance of
the debt.
Also, with shyness and perturbation, Young Dick wandered down
Montgomery Street and vacillated among the many pawnshops that graced
that thoroughfare. At last, diving desperately into one, he managed to
exchange for eight dollars and a ticket his gold watch that he knew was
worth fifty at the very least.
Dinner in the Nob Hill palace was served at six-thirty. He arrived at
six-forty-five and encountered Mrs. Summerstone. She was a stout,
elderly, decayed gentlewoman, a daughter of the great Porter-Rickington
family that had shaken the entire Pacific Coast with its financial
crash in the middle seventies. Despite her stoutness, she suffered from
what she called shattered nerves.
"This will never, never do, Richard," she censured. "Here is dinner
waiting fifteen minutes already, and you have not yet washed your face
and hands."
"I am sorry, Mrs. Summerstone," Young Dick apologized. "I won't keep
you waiting ever again. And I won't bother you much ever."
At dinner, in state, the two of them alone in the great dining room,
Young Dick strove to make things easy for the lady, whom, despite his
knowledge that she was on his pay-roll, he felt toward as a host must
feel toward a guest.
"You'll be very comfortable here," he promised, "once you are settled
down. It's a good old house, and most of the servants have been here
for years."
