So Kersdale on the joyous leper.  He was not afraid of leprosy.  He said
so himself, and that there wasn't one chance in a million for him or any
other white man to catch it, though he confessed afterward that one of
his school chums, Alfred Starter, had contracted it, gone to Molokai, and
there died.
"You know, in the old days," Kersdale explained, "there was no certain
test for leprosy.  Anything unusual or abnormal was sufficient to send a
fellow to Molokai.  The result was that dozens were sent there who were
no more lepers than you or I.  But they don't make that mistake now.  The
Board of Health tests are infallible.  The funny thing is that when the
test was discovered they immediately went down to Molokai and applied it,
and they found a number who were not lepers.  These were immediately
deported.  Happy to get away?  They wailed harder at leaving the
settlement than when they left Honolulu to go to it.  Some refused to
leave, and really had to be forced out.  One of them even married a leper
woman in the last stages and then wrote pathetic letters to the Board of
Health, protesting against his expulsion on the ground that no one was so
well able as he to take care of his poor old wife."
"What is this infallible test?" I demanded.
"The bacteriological test.  There is no getting away from it.  Doctor
Hervey--he's our expert, you know--was the first man to apply it here.  He
is a wizard.  He knows more about leprosy than any living man, and if a
cure is ever discovered, he'll be that discoverer.  As for the test, it
is very simple.  They have succeeded in isolating the _bacillus leprae_
and studying it.  They know it now when they see it.  All they do is to
snip a bit of skin from the suspect and subject it to the bacteriological
test.  A man without any visible symptoms may be chock full of the
leprosy bacilli."
"Then you or I, for all we know," I suggested, "may be full of it now."
Kersdale shrugged his shoulders and laughed.
"Who can say?  It takes seven years for it to incubate.  If you have any
doubts go and see Doctor Hervey.  He'll just snip out a piece of your
skin and let you know in a jiffy."
Later on he introduced me to Dr. Hervey, who loaded me down with Board of
Health reports and pamphlets on the subject, and took me out to Kalihi,
the Honolulu receiving station, where suspects were examined and
confirmed lepers were held for deportation to Molokai.  These
deportations occurred about once a month, when, the last good-byes said,
the lepers were marched on board the little steamer, the _Noeau_, and
carried down to the settlement.
One afternoon, writing letters at the club, Jack Kersdale dropped in on
me.
"Just the man I want to see," was his greeting.  "I'll show you the
saddest aspect of the whole situation--the lepers wailing as they depart
for Molokai.  The _Noeau_ will be taking them on board in a few minutes.
But let me warn you not to let your feelings be harrowed.  Real as their
grief is, they'd wail a whole sight harder a year hence if the Board of
Health tried to take them away from Molokai.  We've just time for a
whiskey and soda.  I've a carriage outside.  It won't take us five
minutes to get down to the wharf."
