"What's that woman doing?" Saxon asked, calling attention to an elderly
woman beneath them on the track, who had sat down and was pulling from
her foot an elastic-sided shoe of generous dimensions.
"Goin' swimming," Bert chuckled, as the stocking followed.
They watched, fascinated. The shoe was pulled on again over the bare
foot. Then the woman slipped a rock the size of her fist into the
stocking, and, brandishing this ancient and horrible weapon, lumbered
into the nearest fray.
"Oh!--Oh!--Oh!" Bert screamed, with every blow she struck. "Hey, old
flannel-mouth! Watch out! You'll get yours in a second. Oh! Oh! A peach!
Did you see it? Hurray for the old lady! Look at her tearin' into 'em!
Watch out, old girl!... Ah-h-h."
His voice died away regretfully, as the one with the stocking, whose
hair had been clutched from behind by another Amazon, was whirled about
in a dizzy semicircle.
Vainly Mary clung to his arm, shaking him back and forth and
remonstrating.
"Can't you be sensible?" she cried. "It's awful! I tell you it's awful!"
But Bert was irrepressible.
"Go it, old girl!" he encouraged. "You win! Me for you every time! Now's
your chance! Swat! Oh! My! A peach! A peach!"
"It's the biggest rough-house I ever saw," Billy confided to Saxon. "It
sure takes the Micks to mix it. But what did that dude wanta do it for?
That's what gets me. He wasn't a bricklayer--not even a workingman--just
a regular sissy dude that didn't know a livin' soul in the grounds. But
if he wanted to raise a rough-house he certainly done it. Look at 'em.
They're fightin' everywhere."
He broke into sudden laughter, so hearty that the tears came into his
eyes.
"What is it?" Saxon asked, anxious not to miss anything.
"It's that dude," Billy explained between gusts. "What did he wanta do
it for? That's what gets my goat. What'd he wanta do it for?"
There was more crashing in the brush, and two women erupted upon the
scene, one in flight, the other pursuing. Almost ere they could realize
it, the little group found itself merged in the astounding conflict that
covered, if not the face of creation, at least all the visible landscape
of Weasel Park.
The fleeing woman stumbled in rounding the end of a picnic bench, and
would have been caught had she not seized Mary's arm to recover balance,
and then flung Mary full into the arms of the woman who pursued. This
woman, largely built, middle-aged, and too irate to comprehend, clutched
Mary's hair by one hand and lifted the other to smack her. Before the
blow could fall, Billy had seized both the woman's wrists.
"Come on, old girl, cut it out," he said appeasingly. "You're in wrong.
She ain't done nothin'."
Then the woman did a strange thing. Making no resistance, but
maintaining her hold on the girl's hair, she stood still and calmly
began to scream. The scream was hideously compounded of fright and fear.
Yet in her face was neither fright nor fear. She regarded Billy coolly
and appraisingly, as if to see how he took it--her scream merely the cry
to the clan for help.
