And he was a prizefighter. The thought of it almost made her gasp. Yet
he answered not at all to her conception of a prizefighter. But, then,
he wasn't a prizefighter. He had said he was not. She resolved to ask
him about it some time if... if he took her out again. Yet there was
little doubt of that, for when a man danced with one girl a whole day
he did not drop her immediately. Almost she hoped that he was a
prizefighter. There was a delicious tickle of wickedness about it.
Prizefighters were such terrible and mysterious men. In so far as they
were out of the ordinary and were not mere common workingmen such as
carpenters and laundrymen, they represented romance. Power also they
represented. They did not work for bosses, but spectacularly and
magnificently, with their own might, grappled with the great world and
wrung splendid living from its reluctant hands. Some of them even
owned automobiles and traveled with a retinue of trainers and servants.
Perhaps it had been only Billy's modesty that made him say he had quit
fighting. And yet, there were the callouses on his hands. That showed he
had quit.
CHAPTER VI
They said good-bye at the gate. Billy betrayed awkwardness that was
sweet to Saxon. He was not one of the take-it-for-granted young men.
There was a pause, while she feigned desire to go into the house, yet
waited in secret eagerness for the words she wanted him to say.
"When am I goin' to see you again?" he asked, holding her hand in his.
She laughed consentingly.
"I live 'way up in East Oakland," he explained. "You know there's where
the stable is, an' most of our teaming is done in that section, so I
don't knock around down this way much. But, say--" His hand tightened
on hers. "We just gotta dance together some more. I'll tell you, the
Orindore Club has its dance Wednesday. If you haven't a date--have you?"
"No," she said.
"Then Wednesday. What time'll I come for you?"
And when they had arranged the details, and he had agreed that she
should dance some of the dances with the other fellows, and said good
night again, his hand closed more tightly on hers and drew her toward
him. She resisted slightly, but honestly. It was the custom, but she
felt she ought not for fear he might misunderstand. And yet she wanted
to kiss him as she had never wanted to kiss a man. When it came, her
face upturned to his, she realized that on his part it was an honest
kiss. There hinted nothing behind it. Rugged and kind as himself, it
was virginal almost, and betrayed no long practice in the art of saying
good-bye. All men were not brutes after all, was her thought.
"Good night," she murmured; the gate screeched under her hand; and
she hurried along the narrow walk that led around to the corner of the
house.
