Time passed.  At the last Bassett was brought back from his ecstasy by an
impatient movement of Ngurn.  He had quite forgotten the old devil-devil
one.  A quick flash of fancy brought a husky chuckle into Bassett’s
throat.  His shot-gun lay beside him in the litter.  All he had to do,
muzzle to head, was to press the trigger and blow his head into
nothingness.
But why cheat him? was Bassett’s next thought.  Head-hunting, cannibal
beast of a human that was as much ape as human, nevertheless Old Ngurn
had, according to his lights, played squarer than square.  Ngurn was in
himself a forerunner of ethics and contract, of consideration, and
gentleness in man.  No, Bassett decided; it would be a ghastly pity and
an act of dishonour to cheat the old fellow at the last.  His head was
Ngurn’s, and Ngurn’s head to cure it would be.
And Bassett, raising his hand in signal, bending forward his head as
agreed so as to expose cleanly the articulation to his taut spinal cord,
forgot Balatta, who was merely a woman, a woman merely and only and
undesired.  He knew, without seeing, when the razor-edged hatchet rose in
the air behind him.  And for that instant, ere the end, there fell upon
Bassett the shadows of the Unknown, a sense of impending marvel of the
rending of walls before the imaginable.  Almost, when he knew the blow
had started and just ere the edge of steel bit the flesh and nerves it
seemed that he gazed upon the serene face of the Medusa, Truth—And,
simultaneous with the bite of the steel on the onrush of the dark, in a
flashing instant of fancy, he saw the vision of his head turning slowly,
always turning, in the devil-devil house beside the breadfruit tree.
                                 THE END
Waikiki, Honolulu,
         _May_ 22, 1916.
THE HUSSY
THERE are some stories that have to be true—the sort that cannot be
fabricated by a ready fiction-reckoner.  And by the same token there are
some men with stories to tell who cannot be doubted.  Such a man was
Julian Jones.  Although I doubt if the average reader of this will
believe the story Julian Jones told me.  Nevertheless I believe it.  So
thoroughly am I convinced of its verity that I am willing, nay, eager, to
invest capital in the enterprise and embark personally on the adventure
to a far land.
It was in the Australian Building at the Panama Pacific Exposition that I
met him.  I was standing before an exhibit of facsimiles of the record
nuggets which had been discovered in the goldfields of the Antipodes.
Knobbed, misshapen and massive, it was as difficult to believe that they
were not real gold as it was to believe the accompanying statistics of
their weights and values.
“That’s what those kangaroo-hunters call a nugget,” boomed over my
shoulder directly at the largest of the specimens.
I turned and looked up into the dim blue eyes of Julian Jones.  I looked
up, for he stood something like six feet four inches in height.  His
hair, a wispy, sandy yellow, seemed as dimmed and faded as his eyes.  It
may have been the sun which had washed out his colouring; at least his
face bore the evidence of a prodigious and ardent sun-burn which had long
since faded to yellow.  As his eyes turned from the exhibit and focussed
on mine I noted a queer look in them as of one who vainly tries to recall
some fact of supreme importance.
