The trouble was over in an amazingly short time, for from the judges'
stand beside the track the announcer was bellowing the start of the
boys' foot-race; and Bert, disappointed, joined Billy and the two girls
on the hillside looking down upon the track.
There were boys' races and girls' races, races of young women and old
women, of fat men and fat women, sack races and three-legged races,
and the contestants strove around the small track through a Bedlam of
cheering supporters. The tug-of-war was already forgotten, and good
nature reigned again.
Five young men toed the mark, crouching with fingertips to the
ground and waiting the starter's revolver-shot. Three were in their
stocking-feet, and the remaining two wore spiked running-shoes.
"Young men's race," Bert read from the program. "An' only one
prize--twenty-five dollars. See the red-head with the spikes--the one
next to the outside. San Francisco's set on him winning. He's their
crack, an' there's a lot of bets up."
"Who's goin' to win?" Mary deferred to Billy's superior athletic
knowledge.
"How can I tell!" he answered. "I never saw any of 'em before. But they
all look good to me. May the best one win, that's all."
The revolver was fired, and the five runners were off and away. Three
were outdistanced at the start. Redhead led, with a black-haired young
man at his shoulder, and it was plain that the race lay between these
two. Halfway around, the black-haired one took the lead in a spurt
that was intended to last to the finish. Ten feet he gained, nor could
Red-head cut it down an inch.
"The boy's a streak," Billy commented. "He ain't tryin' his hardest, an'
Red-head's just bustin' himself."
Still ten feet in the lead, the black-haired one breasted the tape in a
hubbub of cheers. Yet yells of disapproval could be distinguished. Bert
hugged himself with joy.
"Mm-mm," he gloated. "Ain't Frisco sore? Watch out for fireworks now.
See! He's bein' challenged. The judges ain't payin' him the money. An'
he's got a gang behind him. Oh! Oh! Oh! Ain't had so much fun since my
old woman broke her leg!"
"Why don't they pay him, Billy?" Saxon asked. "He won."
"The Frisco bunch is challengin' him for a professional," Billy
elucidated. "That's what they're all beefin' about. But it ain't right.
They all ran for that money, so they're all professional."
The crowd surged and argued and roared in front of the judges' stand.
The stand was a rickety, two-story affair, the second story open at the
front, and here the judges could be seen debating as heatedly as the
crowd beneath them.
"There she starts!" Bert cried. "Oh, you rough-house!"
The black-haired racer, backed by a dozen supporters, was climbing the
outside stairs to the judges.
"The purse-holder's his friend," Billy said. "See, he's paid him, an'
some of the judges is willin' an' some are beefin'. An' now that
other gang's going up--they're Redhead's." He turned to Saxon with a
reassuring smile. "We're well out of it this time. There's goin' to be
rough stuff down there in a minute."
