He absurdly insisted upon my addressing him as Mr. Mugridge, and his
behaviour and carriage were insufferable as he showed me my duties.
Besides my work in the cabin, with its four small state-rooms, I was
supposed to be his assistant in the galley, and my colossal ignorance
concerning such things as peeling potatoes or washing greasy pots was a
source of unending and sarcastic wonder to him.  He refused to take into
consideration what I was, or, rather, what my life and the things I was
accustomed to had been.  This was part of the attitude he chose to adopt
toward me; and I confess, ere the day was done, that I hated him with
more lively feelings than I had ever hated any one in my life before.
This first day was made more difficult for me from the fact that the
_Ghost_, under close reefs (terms such as these I did not learn till
later), was plunging through what Mr. Mugridge called an "'owlin'
sou'-easter."  At half-past five, under his directions, I set the table
in the cabin, with rough-weather trays in place, and then carried the tea
and cooked food down from the galley.  In this connection I cannot
forbear relating my first experience with a boarding sea.
"Look sharp or you'll get doused," was Mr. Mugridge's parting injunction,
as I left the galley with a big tea-pot in one hand, and in the hollow of
the other arm several loaves of fresh-baked bread.  One of the hunters, a
tall, loose-jointed chap named Henderson, was going aft at the time from
the steerage (the name the hunters facetiously gave their midships
sleeping quarters) to the cabin.  Wolf Larsen was on the poop, smoking
his everlasting cigar.
"'Ere she comes.  Sling yer 'ook!" the cook cried.
I stopped, for I did not know what was coming, and saw the galley door
slide shut with a bang.  Then I saw Henderson leaping like a madman for
the main rigging, up which he shot, on the inside, till he was many feet
higher than my head.  Also I saw a great wave, curling and foaming,
poised far above the rail.  I was directly under it.  My mind did not
work quickly, everything was so new and strange.  I grasped that I was in
danger, but that was all.  I stood still, in trepidation.  Then Wolf
Larsen shouted from the poop:
"Grab hold something, you--you Hump!"
But it was too late.  I sprang toward the rigging, to which I might have
clung, and was met by the descending wall of water.  What happened after
that was very confusing.  I was beneath the water, suffocating and
drowning.  My feet were out from under me, and I was turning over and
over and being swept along I knew not where.  Several times I collided
against hard objects, once striking my right knee a terrible blow.  Then
the flood seemed suddenly to subside and I was breathing the good air
again.  I had been swept against the galley and around the steerage
companion-way from the weather side into the lee scuppers.  The pain from
my hurt knee was agonizing.  I could not put my weight on it, or, at
least, I thought I could not put my weight on it; and I felt sure the leg
was broken.  But the cook was after me, shouting through the lee galley
door:
