He stepped back respectfully out of earshot, where he stood grumbling to
himself and measuring the distance in springs.
"Um white, um soft, like baby."  Winapie touched the other cheek and
withdrew her hand.  "Bimeby mosquito come.  Skin get sore in spot; um
swell, oh, so big; um hurt, oh, so much.  Plenty mosquito; plenty spot.  I
think better you go now before mosquito come.  This way," pointing down
the stream, "you go St. Michael's; that way," pointing up, "you go Dyea.
Better you go Dyea.  Good-by."
And that which Mrs. Sayther then did, caused Pierre to marvel greatly.
For she threw her arms around the Indian girl, kissed her, and burst into
tears.
"Be good to him," she cried.  "Be good to him."
Then she slipped half down the face of the bank, called back "Good-by,"
and dropped into the boat amidships.  Pierre followed her and cast off.
He shoved the steering oar into place and gave the signal.  Le Goire
lifted an old French _chanson_; the men, like a row of ghosts in the dim
starlight, bent their backs to the tow line; the steering oar cut the
black current sharply, and the boat swept out into the night.
WHICH MAKE MEN REMEMBER
Fortune La Pearle crushed his way through the snow, sobbing, straining,
cursing his luck, Alaska, Nome, the cards, and the man who had felt his
knife.  The hot blood was freezing on his hands, and the scene yet bright
in his eyes,--the man, clutching the table and sinking slowly to the
floor; the rolling counters and the scattered deck; the swift shiver
throughout the room, and the pause; the game-keepers no longer calling,
and the clatter of the chips dying away; the startled faces; the infinite
instant of silence; and then the great blood-roar and the tide of
vengeance which lapped his heels and turned the town mad behind him.
"All hell's broke loose," he sneered, turning aside in the darkness and
heading for the beach.  Lights were flashing from open doors, and tent,
cabin, and dance-hall let slip their denizens upon the chase.  The clamor
of men and howling of dogs smote his ears and quickened his feet.  He ran
on and on.  The sounds grew dim, and the pursuit dissipated itself in
vain rage and aimless groping.  But a flitting shadow clung to him.  Head
thrust over shoulder, he caught glimpses of it, now taking vague shape on
an open expanse of snow, how merging into the deeper shadows of some
darkened cabin or beach-listed craft.
Fortune La Pearle swore like a woman, weakly, with the hint of tears that
comes of exhaustion, and plunged deeper into the maze of heaped ice,
tents, and prospect holes.  He stumbled over taut hawsers and piles of
dunnage, tripped on crazy guy-ropes and insanely planted pegs, and fell
again and again upon frozen dumps and mounds of hoarded driftwood.  At
times, when he deemed he had drawn clear, his head dizzy with the painful
pounding of his heart and the suffocating intake of his breath, he
slackened down; and ever the shadow leaped out of the gloom and forced
him on in heart-breaking flight.  A swift intuition lashed upon him,
leaving in its trail the cold chill of superstition.  The persistence of
the shadow he invested with his gambler's symbolism.  Silent, inexorable,
not to be shaken off, he took it as the fate which waited at the last
turn when chips were cashed in and gains and losses counted up.  Fortune
La Pearle believed in those rare, illuminating moments, when the
intelligence flung from it time and space, to rise naked through eternity
and read the facts of life from the open book of chance.  That this was
such a moment he had no doubt; and when he turned inland and sped across
the snow-covered tundra he was not startled because the shadow took upon
it greater definiteness and drew in closer.  Oppressed with his own
impotence, he halted in the midst of the white waste and whirled about.
His right hand slipped from its mitten, and a revolver, at level,
glistened in the pale light of the stars.
