"Over there somewhere," I said.  "That name you just spoke was what the
Jews called it.  But we called it something else.  We called it . . . I
forget."
"Listen to the youngster," my father chuckled.  "You'd think he'd ben
there."
I nodded my head, for in that moment I knew I had been there, though all
seemed strangely different.  My father laughed the harder, but the
missionary thought I was making game of him.  He handed me another
photograph.  It was just a bleak waste of a landscape, barren of trees
and vegetation, a shallow canyon with easy-sloping walls of rubble.  In
the middle distance was a cluster of wretched, flat-roofed hovels.
"Now, my boy, where is that?" the missionary quizzed.
And the name came to me!
"Samaria," I said instantly.
My father clapped his hands with glee, my mother was perplexed at my
antic conduct, while the missionary evinced irritation.
"The boy is right," he said.  "It is a village in Samaria.  I passed
through it.  That is why I bought it.  And it goes to show that the boy
has seen similar photographs before."
This my father and mother denied.
"But it's different in the picture," I volunteered, while all the time my
memory was busy reconstructing the photograph.  The general trend of the
landscape and the line of the distant hills were the same.  The
differences I noted aloud and pointed out with my finger.
"The houses was about right here, and there was more trees, lots of
trees, and lots of grass, and lots of goats.  I can see 'em now, an' two
boys drivin' 'em.  An' right here is a lot of men walkin' behind one man.
An' over there"--I pointed to where I had placed my village--"is a lot of
tramps.  They ain't got nothin' on exceptin' rags.  An' they're sick.
Their faces, an' hands, an' legs is all sores."
"He's heard the story in church or somewhere--you remember, the healing
of the lepers in Luke," the missionary said with a smile of satisfaction.
"How many sick tramps are there, my boy?"
I had learned to count to a hundred when I was five years old, so I went
over the group carefully and announced:
"Ten of 'em.  They're all wavin' their arms an' yellin' at the other
men."
"But they don't come near them?" was the query.
I shook my head.  "They just stand right there an' keep a-yellin' like
they was in trouble."
"Go on," urged the missionary.  "What next?  What's the man doing in the
front of the other crowd you said was walking along?"
"They've all stopped, an' he's sayin' something to the sick men.  An' the
boys with the goats 's stopped to look.  Everybody's lookin'."
"And then?"
"That's all.  The sick men are headin' for the houses.  They ain't
yellin' any more, an' they don't look sick any more.  An' I just keep
settin' on my horse a-lookin' on."
At this all three of my listeners broke into laughter.
