"Just came in to breakfast as we were leaving," Bert Wainwright
volunteered.
"Tell him to be ready at eleven-thirty if you see him. You're not
invited, Bert... out of kindness. The girls are sure to be up then."
"Take Rita along with you anyway," Bert pleaded.
"No fear," was Forrest's reply from the door. "We're on business.
Besides, you can't pry Rita from Ernestine with block-and-tackle."
"That's why I wanted to see if you could," Bert grinned.
"Funny how fellows never appreciate their own sisters." Forrest paused
for a perceptible moment. "I always thought Rita was a real nice
sister. What's the matter with her?"
Before a reply could reach him, he had closed the door and was jingling
his spurs along the passage to a spiral stairway of broad concrete
steps. As he left the head of the stairway, a dance-time piano measure
and burst of laughter made him peep into a white morning room, flooded
with sunshine. A young girl, in rose-colored kimono and boudoir cap,
was at the instrument, while two others, similarly accoutered, in each
other's arms, were parodying a dance never learned at dancing school
nor intended by the participants for male eyes to see.
The girl at the piano discovered him, winked, and played on. Not for
another minute did the dancers spy him. They gave startled cries,
collapsed, laughing, in each other's arms, and the music stopped. They
were gorgeous, healthy young creatures, the three of them, and
Forrest's eye kindled as he looked at them in quite the same way that
it had kindled when he regarded the Fotherington Princess.
Persiflage, of the sort that obtains among young things of the human
kind, flew back and forth.
"I've been here five minutes," Dick Forrest asserted.
The two dancers, to cover their confusion, doubted his veracity and
instanced his many well-known and notorious guilts of mendacity. The
girl at the piano, Ernestine, his sister-in-law, insisted that pearls
of truth fell from his lips, that she had seen him from the moment he
began to look, and that as she estimated the passage of time he had
been looking much longer than five minutes.
"Well, anyway," Forrest broke in on their babel, "Bert, the sweet
innocent, doesn't think you are up yet."
"We're not... to him," one of the dancers, a vivacious young Venus,
retorted. "Nor are we to you either. So run along, little boy. Run
along."
"Look here, Lute," Forrest began sternly. "Just because I am a decrepit
old man, and just because you are eighteen, just eighteen, and happen
to be my wife's sister, you needn't presume to put the high and mighty
over on me. Don't forget--and I state the fact, disagreeable as it may
be, for Rita's sake--don't forget that in the past ten years I've
paddled you more disgraceful times than you care to dare me to
enumerate.
"It is true, I am not so young as I used to was, but--" He felt the
biceps of his right arm and made as if to roll up the sleeve. "--But,
I'm not all in yet, and for two cents..."
