The missionary rose, for the moment swayed by the mood of sacrifice.  He
half crawled over the barricade to proceed to the other camp, but sank
back, a trembling mass, wailing: "As the spirit moves!  As the spirit
moves!  Who am I that I should set aside the judgments of God?  Before
the foundations of the world were all things written in the book of life.
Worm that I am, shall I erase the page or any portion thereof?  As God
wills, so shall the spirit move!"
Bill reached over, plucked him to his feet, and shook him, fiercely,
silently.  Then he dropped the bundle of quivering nerves and turned his
attention to the two converts.  But they showed little fright and a
cheerful alacrity in preparing for the coming passage at arms.
Stockard, who had been talking in undertones with the Teslin woman, now
turned to the missionary.
"Fetch him over here," he commanded of Bill.
"Now," he ordered, when Sturges Owen had been duly deposited before him,
"make us man and wife, and be lively about it."  Then he added
apologetically to Bill: "No telling how it's to end, so I just thought
I'd get my affairs straightened up."
The woman obeyed the behest of her white lord.  To her the ceremony was
meaningless.  By her lights she was his wife, and had been from the day
they first foregathered.  The converts served as witnesses.  Bill stood
over the missionary, prompting him when he stumbled.  Stockard put the
responses in the woman's mouth, and when the time came, for want of
better, ringed her finger with thumb and forefinger of his own.
"Kiss the bride!" Bill thundered, and Sturges Owen was too weak to
disobey.
"Now baptize the child!"
"Neat and tidy," Bill commented.
"Gathering the proper outfit for a new trail," the father explained,
taking the boy from the mother's arms.  "I was grub-staked, once, into
the Cascades, and had everything in the kit except salt.  Never shall
forget it.  And if the woman and the kid cross the divide to-night they
might as well be prepared for pot-luck.  A long shot, Bill, between
ourselves, but nothing lost if it misses."
A cup of water served the purpose, and the child was laid away in a
secure corner of the barricade.  The men built the fire, and the evening
meal was cooked.
The sun hurried round to the north, sinking closer to the horizon.  The
heavens in that quarter grew red and bloody.  The shadows lengthened, the
light dimmed, and in the sombre recesses of the forest life slowly died
away.  Even the wild fowl in the river softened their raucous chatter and
feigned the nightly farce of going to bed.  Only the tribesmen increased
their clamor, war-drums booming and voices raised in savage folk songs.
But as the sun dipped they ceased their tumult.  The rounded hush of
midnight was complete.  Stockard rose to his knees and peered over the
logs.  Once the child wailed in pain and disconcerted him.  The mother
bent over it, but it slept again.  The silence was interminable,
profound.  Then, of a sudden, the robins burst into full-throated song.
The night had passed.
