“And Paloma,” he added quickly.
“Him and his cook and his light housekeeper sitting by the fire,” she
amended.
“Oh, I admit Vahna did like me a whole heap,” he asserted recklessly,
then modified with a pang of caution: “A heap more than was good for her,
seeing that I had no inclination her way.
“Well, as I was saying, she had another visitor.  He was a lean, tall,
white-headed old Indian, with a beak on him like an eagle.  He walked
right in without knocking.  Vahna gave a little cry that was half like a
yelp and half like a gasp, and flumped down on her knees before me,
pleading to me with deer’s eyes and to him with the eyes of a deer about
to be killed that don’t want to be killed.  Then, for a minute that
seemed as long as a life-time, she and the old fellow glared at each
other.  Paloma was the first to talk, in his own lingo, for he talked
back to her.  But great Moses, if he wasn’t the high and mighty one!
Paloma’s old knees were shaking, and she cringed to him like a hound dog.
And all this in my own house!  I’d have thrown him out on his neck, only
he was so old.
“If the things he said to Vahna were as terrible as the way he looked!
Say!  He just spit words at her!  But Paloma kept whimpering and butting
in, till something she said got across, because his face relaxed.  He
condescended to give me the once over and fired some question at Vahna.
She hung her head, and looked foolish, and blushed, and then replied with
a single word and a shake of the head.  And with that he just naturally
turned on his heel and beat it.  I guess she’d said ‘No.’
“For some time after that Vahna used to fluster up whenever she saw me.
Then she took to the kitchen for a spell.  But after a long time she
began hanging around the big room again.  She was still mighty shy, but
she’d keep on following me about with those big eyes of hers—”
“The hussy!” I heard plainly.  But Julian Jones and I were pretty well
used to it by this time.
“I don’t mind saying that I was getting some interested myself—oh, not in
the way Sarah never lets up letting me know she thinks.  That two-pound
nugget was what had me going.  If Vahna’d put me wise to where it came
from, I could say good-bye to railroading and hit the high places for
Nebraska and Sarah.
“And then the beans were spilled . . . by accident.  Come a letter from
Wisconsin.  My Aunt Eliza ’d died and up and left me her big farm.  I let
out a whoop when I read it; but I could have canned my joy, for I was
jobbed out of it by the courts and lawyers afterward—not a cent to me,
and I’m still paying ’m in instalments.
