Wolf Larsen dropped my hand with a flirt of disdain.
"Dead men's hands have kept it soft.  Good for little else than
dish-washing and scullion work."
"I wish to be put ashore," I said firmly, for I now had myself in
control.  "I shall pay you whatever you judge your delay and trouble to
be worth."
He looked at me curiously.  Mockery shone in his eyes.
"I have a counter proposition to make, and for the good of your soul.  My
mate's gone, and there'll be a lot of promotion.  A sailor comes aft to
take mate's place, cabin-boy goes for'ard to take sailor's place, and you
take the cabin-boy's place, sign the articles for the cruise, twenty
dollars per month and found.  Now what do you say?  And mind you, it's
for your own soul's sake.  It will be the making of you.  You might learn
in time to stand on your own legs, and perhaps to toddle along a bit."
But I took no notice.  The sails of the vessel I had seen off to the
south-west had grown larger and plainer.  They were of the same
schooner-rig as the _Ghost_, though the hull itself, I could see, was
smaller.  She was a pretty sight, leaping and flying toward us, and
evidently bound to pass at close range.  The wind had been momentarily
increasing, and the sun, after a few angry gleams, had disappeared.  The
sea had turned a dull leaden grey and grown rougher, and was now tossing
foaming whitecaps to the sky.  We were travelling faster, and heeled
farther over.  Once, in a gust, the rail dipped under the sea, and the
decks on that side were for the moment awash with water that made a
couple of the hunters hastily lift their feet.
"That vessel will soon be passing us," I said, after a moment's pause.
"As she is going in the opposite direction, she is very probably bound
for San Francisco."
"Very probably," was Wolf Larsen's answer, as he turned partly away from
me and cried out, "Cooky!  Oh, Cooky!"
The Cockney popped out of the galley.
"Where's that boy?  Tell him I want him."
"Yes, sir;" and Thomas Mugridge fled swiftly aft and disappeared down
another companion-way near the wheel.  A moment later he emerged, a
heavy-set young fellow of eighteen or nineteen, with a glowering,
villainous countenance, trailing at his heels.
"'Ere 'e is, sir," the cook said.
But Wolf Larsen ignored that worthy, turning at once to the cabin-boy.
"What's your name, boy?"
"George Leach, sir," came the sullen answer, and the boy's bearing showed
clearly that he divined the reason for which he had been summoned.
"Not an Irish name," the captain snapped sharply.  "O'Toole or McCarthy
would suit your mug a damn sight better.  Unless, very likely, there's an
Irishman in your mother's woodpile."
I saw the young fellow's hands clench at the insult, and the blood crawl
scarlet up his neck.
"But let that go," Wolf Larsen continued.  "You may have very good
reasons for forgetting your name, and I'll like you none the worse for it
as long as you toe the mark.  Telegraph Hill, of course, is your port of
entry.  It sticks out all over your mug.  Tough as they make them and
twice as nasty.  I know the kind.  Well, you can make up your mind to
have it taken out of you on this craft.  Understand?  Who shipped you,
anyway?"
