"Then there was open war.  I made a play for Neewak and Tummasook,
because of the traditionary rights they possessed; but Moosu won
out by creating a priesthood and giving them both high office.  The
problem of authority presented itself to him, and he worked it out
as it has often been worked before.  There was my mistake.  I
should have been made shaman, and he chief; but I saw it too late,
and in the clash of spiritual and temporal power I was bound to be
worsted.  A great controversy waged, but it quickly became one-
sided.  The people remembered that he had anointed me, and it was
clear to them that the source of my authority lay, not in me, but
in Moosu.  Only a few faithful ones clung to me, chief among whom
Angeit was; while he headed the popular party and set whispers
afloat that I had it in mind to overthrow him and set up my own
gods, which were most unrighteous gods.  And in this the clever
rascal had anticipated me, for it was just what I had intended--
forsake my kingship, you see, and fight spiritual with spiritual.
So he frightened the people with the iniquities of my peculiar
gods--especially the one he named 'Biz-e-Nass'--and nipped the
scheme in the bud.
"Now, it happened that Kluktu, youngest daughter to Tummasook, had
caught my fancy, and I likewise hers.  So I made overtures, but the
ex-chief refused bluntly--after I had paid the purchase price--and
informed me that she was set aside for Moosu.  This was too much,
and I was half of a mind to go to his igloo and slay him with my
naked hands; but I recollected that the tobacco was near gone, and
went home laughing.  The next day he made incantation, and
distorted the miracle of the loaves and fishes till it became
prophecy, and I, reading between the lines, saw that it was aimed
at the wealth of meat stored in my caches.  The people also read
between the lines, and, as he did not urge them to go on the hunt,
they remained at home, and few caribou or bear were brought in.
"But I had plans of my own, seeing that not only the tobacco but
the flour and molasses were near gone.  And further, I felt it my
duty to prove the white man's wisdom and bring sore distress to
Moosu, who had waxed high-stomached, what of the power I had given
him.  So that night I went to my meat caches and toiled mightily,
and it was noted next day that all the dogs of the village were
lazy.  No one suspected, and I toiled thus every night, and the
dogs grew fat and fatter, and the people lean and leaner.  They
grumbled and demanded the fulfilment of prophecy, but Moosu
restrained them, waiting for their hunger to grow yet greater.  Nor
did he dream, to the very last, of the trick I had been playing on
the empty caches.
