"And they still believe that old prehistoric myth," Ernestine
proclaimed from safety, "that once he, that wretched semblance of a
man-thing prone in the dirt, captained Berkeley to victory over
Stanford."
Her breasts heaved from the exertion, and he marked the pulsating of
the shimmering cherry-colored silk with delight as he flung his glance
around to the other two girls similarly breathing.
The piano was a miniature grand--a dainty thing of rich white and gold
to match the morning room. It stood out from the wall, so that there
was possibility for Lute to escape around either way of it. Forrest
gained his feet and faced her across the broad, flat top of the
instrument. As he threatened to vault it, Lute cried out in horror:
"But your spurs, Dick! Your spurs!"
"Give me time to take them off," he offered.
As he stooped to unbuckle them, Lute darted to escape, but was herded
back to the shelter of the piano.
"All right," he growled. "On your head be it. If the piano's scratched
I'll tell Paula."
"I've got witnesses," she panted, indicating with her blue joyous eyes
the young things in the doorways.
"Very well, my dear." Forrest drew back his body and spread his resting
palms. "I'm coming over to you."
Action and speech were simultaneous. His body, posited sidewise from
his hands, was vaulted across, the perilous spurs a full foot above the
glossy white surface. And simultaneously Lute ducked and went under the
piano on hands and knees. Her mischance lay in that she bumped her
head, and, before she could recover way, Forrest had circled the piano
and cornered her under it.
"Come out!" he commanded. "Come out and take your medicine!"
"A truce," she pleaded. "A truce, Sir Knight, for dear love's sake and
all damsels in distress."
"I ain't no knight," Forrest announced in his deepest bass. "I'm an
ogre, a filthy, debased and altogether unregenerate ogre. I was born in
the tule-swamps. My father was an ogre and my mother was more so. I was
lulled to slumber on the squalls of infants dead, foreordained, and
predamned. I was nourished solely on the blood of maidens educated in
Mills Seminary. My favorite chophouse has ever been a hardwood floor, a
loaf of Mills Seminary maiden, and a roof of flat piano. My father, as
well as an ogre, was a California horse-thief. I am more reprehensible
than my father. I have more teeth. My mother, as well as an ogress, was
a Nevada book-canvasser. Let all her shame be told. She even solicited
subscriptions for ladies' magazines. I am more terrible than my mother.
I have peddled safety razors."
"Can naught soothe and charm your savage breast?" Lute pleaded in
soulful tones while she studied her chances for escape.
"One thing only, miserable female. One thing only, on the earth, over
the earth, and under its ruining waters--"
A squawk of recognized plagiarism interrupted him from Ernestine.
"See Ernest Dowson, page seventy-nine, a thin book of thin verse ladled
out with porridge to young women detentioned at Mills Seminary,"
Forrest went on. "As I had already enunciated before I was so rudely
interrupted, the one thing only that can balm and embalm this savage
breast is the 'Maiden's Prayer.' Listen, with all your ears ere I chew
them off in multitude and gross! Listen, silly, unbeautiful, squat,
short-legged and ugly female under the piano! Can you recite the
'Maiden's Prayer'?"
