"If we have to tear the prison down stone by stone," Captain Jamie added
valiantly.
That was six years ago.  In all the intervening time they have never
found that non-existent explosive, and they have turned the prison upside-
down a thousand times in searching for it.  Nevertheless, to his last day
in office Warden Atherton believed in the existence of that dynamite.
Captain Jamie, who is still Captain of the Yard, believes to this day
that the dynamite is somewhere in the prison.  Only yesterday, he came
all the way up from San Quentin to Folsom to make one more effort to get
me to reveal the hiding-place.  I know he will never breathe easy until
they swing me off.
CHAPTER III
All that day I lay in the dungeon cudgelling my brains for the reason of
this new and inexplicable punishment.  All I could conclude was that some
stool had lied an infraction of the rules on me in order to curry favour
with the guards.
Meanwhile Captain Jamie fretted his head off and prepared for the night,
while Winwood passed the word along to the forty lifers to be ready for
the break.  And two hours after midnight every guard in the prison was
under orders.  This included the day-shift which should have been asleep.
When two o'clock came, they rushed the cells occupied by the forty.  The
rush was simultaneous.  The cells were opened at the same moment, and
without exception the men named by Winwood were found out of their bunks,
fully dressed, and crouching just inside their doors.  Of course, this
was verification absolute of all the fabric of lies that the poet-forger
had spun for Captain Jamie.  The forty lifers were caught in red-handed
readiness for the break.  What if they did unite, afterward, in averring
that the break had been planned by Winwood?  The Prison Board of
Directors believed, to a man, that the forty lied in an effort to save
themselves.  The Board of Pardons likewise believed, for, ere three
months were up, Cecil Winwood, forger and poet, most despicable of men,
was pardoned out.
Oh, well, the stir, or the pen, as they call it in convict argot, is a
training school for philosophy.  No inmate can survive years of it
without having had burst for him his fondest illusions and fairest
metaphysical bubbles.  Truth lives, we are taught; murder will out.  Well,
this is a demonstration that murder does not always come out.  The
Captain of the Yard, the late Warden Atherton, the Prison Board of
Directors to a man--all believe, right now, in the existence of that
dynamite that never existed save in the slippery-geared and all
too-accelerated brain of the degenerate forger and poet, Cecil Winwood.
And Cecil Winwood still lives, while I, of all men concerned, the
utterest, absolutist, innocentest, go to the scaffold in a few short
weeks.
* * * * *
And now I must tell how entered the forty lifers upon my dungeon
stillness.  I was asleep when the outer door to the corridor of dungeons
clanged open and aroused me.  "Some poor devil," was my thought; and my
next thought was that he was surely getting his, as I listened to the
scuffling of feet, the dull impact of blows on flesh, the sudden cries of
pain, the filth of curses, and the sounds of dragging bodies.  For, you
see, every man was man-handled all the length of the way.
