So a litter was made, and, borne on the shoulders of half a dozen of the
men, Bassett departed on the last little adventure that was to cap the
total adventure, for him, of living.  With a body of which he was
scarcely aware, for even the pain had been exhausted out of it, and with
a bright clear brain that accommodated him to a quiet ecstasy of sheer
lucidness of thought, he lay back on the lurching litter and watched the
fading of the passing world, beholding for the last time the breadfruit
tree before the devil-devil house, the dim day beneath the matted jungle
roof, the gloomy gorge between the shouldering mountains, the saddle of
raw limestone, and the mesa of black volcanic sand.
Down the spiral path of the pit they bore him, encircling the sheening,
glowing Red One that seemed ever imminent to iridesce from colour and
light into sweet singing and thunder.  And over bones and logs of
immolated men and gods they bore him, past the horrors of other immolated
ones that yet lived, to the three-king-post tripod and the huge king-post
striker.
Here Bassett, helped by Ngurn and Balatta, weakly sat up, swaying weakly
from the hips, and with clear, unfaltering, all-seeing eyes gazed upon
the Red One.
“Once, O Ngurn,” he said, not taking his eyes from the sheening,
vibrating surface whereon and wherein all the shades of cherry-red played
unceasingly, ever a-quiver to change into sound, to become silken
rustlings, silvery whisperings, golden thrummings of cords, velvet
pipings of elfland, mellow distances of thunderings.
“I wait,” Ngurn prompted after a long pause, the long-handled tomahawk
unassumingly ready in his hand.
“Once, O Ngurn,” Bassett repeated, “let the Red One speak so that I may
see it speak as well as hear it.  Then strike, thus, when I raise my
hand; for, when I raise my hand, I shall drop my head forward and make
place for the stroke at the base of my neck.  But, O Ngurn, I, who am
about to pass out of the light of day for ever, would like to pass with
the wonder-voice of the Red One singing greatly in my ears.”
“And I promise you that never will a head be so well cured as yours,”
Ngurn assured him, at the same time signalling the tribesmen to man the
propelling ropes suspended from the king-post striker.  “Your head shall
be my greatest piece of work in the curing of heads.”
Bassett smiled quietly to the old one’s conceit, as the great carved log,
drawn back through two-score feet of space, was released.  The next
moment he was lost in ecstasy at the abrupt and thunderous liberation of
sound.  But such thunder!  Mellow it was with preciousness of all
sounding metals.  Archangels spoke in it; it was magnificently beautiful
before all other sounds; it was invested with the intelligence of
supermen of planets of other suns; it was the voice of God, seducing and
commanding to be heard.  And—the everlasting miracle of that interstellar
metal! Bassett, with his own eyes, saw colour and colours transform into
sound till the whole visible surface of the vast sphere was a-crawl and
titillant and vaporous with what he could not tell was colour or was
sound.  In that moment the interstices of matter were his, and the
interfusings and intermating transfusings of matter and force.
