Pshaw! I know another trick I'd like to work on him, and I almost
regret that I did not do it at the moment I was captured. I could make
him sick, what of his clutch on my collar. His fingers,
tight-gripping, are buried inside my collar. My coat is tightly
buttoned. Did you ever see a tourniquet? Well, this is one. All I have
to do is to duck my head under his arm and begin to twist. I must
twist rapidly--very rapidly. I know how to do it; twisting in a
violent, jerky way, ducking my head under his arm with each
revolution. Before he knows it, those detaining fingers of his will be
detained. He will be unable to withdraw them. It is a powerful
leverage. Twenty seconds after I have started revolving, the blood
will be bursting out of his finger-ends, the delicate tendons will be
rupturing, and all the muscles and nerves will be mashing and crushing
together in a shrieking mass. Try it sometime when somebody has you by
the collar. But be quick--quick as lightning. Also, be sure to hug
yourself while you are revolving--hug your face with your left arm and
your abdomen with your right. You see, the other fellow might try to
stop you with a punch from his free arm. It would be a good idea, too,
to revolve away from that free arm rather than toward it. A punch
going is never so bad as a punch coming.
That shack will never know how near he was to being made very, very
sick. All that saves him is that it is not in their plan to man-handle
me. When we draw near enough, he calls out that he has me, and they
signal the train to come on. The engine passes us, and the three
blinds. After that, the conductor and the other shack swing aboard.
But still my captor holds on to me. I see the plan. He is going to
hold me until the rear of the train goes by. Then he will hop on, and
I shall be left behind--ditched.
But the train has pulled out fast, the engineer trying to make up for
lost time. Also, it is a long train. It is going very lively, and I
know the shack is measuring its speed with apprehension.
"Think you can make it?" I query innocently.
He releases my collar, makes a quick run, and swings aboard. A number
of coaches are yet to pass by. He knows it, and remains on the steps,
his head poked out and watching me. In that moment my next move comes
to me. I'll make the last platform. I know she's going fast and
faster, but I'll only get a roll in the dirt if I fail, and the
optimism of youth is mine. I do not give myself away. I stand with a
dejected droop of shoulder, advertising that I have abandoned hope.
But at the same time I am feeling with my feet the good gravel. It is
perfect footing. Also I am watching the poked-out head of the shack. I
see it withdrawn. He is confident that the train is going too fast for
me ever to make it.
