I spoke to the steward, an old Chinese, smooth-faced and brisk of
movement, whose name I never learned, but whose age on the articles was
fifty-six.
"What is down there?" I asked, pointing to the hatch in the floor.
"Him lazarette," he answered.
"And who eats there?" I indicated a table with two stationary sea-chairs.
"Him second table.  Second mate and carpenter him eat that table."
When I had finished giving instructions to Wada for the arranging of my
things I looked at my watch.  It was early yet, only several minutes
after three so I went on deck again to witness the arrival of the crew.
The actual coming on board from the tug I had missed, but for'ard of the
amidship house I encountered a few laggards who had not yet gone into the
forecastle.  These were the worse for liquor, and a more wretched,
miserable, disgusting group of men I had never seen in any slum.  Their
clothes were rags.  Their faces were bloated, bloody, and dirty.  I won't
say they were villainous.  They were merely filthy and vile.  They were
vile of appearance, of speech, and action.
"Come!  Come!  Get your dunnage into the fo'c's'le!"
Mr. Pike uttered these words sharply from the bridge above.  A light and
graceful bridge of steel rods and planking ran the full length of the
_Elsinore_, starting from the poop, crossing the amidship house and the
forecastle, and connecting with the forecastle-head at the very bow of
the ship.
At the mate's command the men reeled about and glowered up at him, one or
two starting clumsily to obey.  The others ceased their drunken
yammerings and regarded the mate sullenly.  One of them, with a face
mashed by some mad god in the making, and who was afterwards to be known
by me as Larry, burst into a guffaw, and spat insolently on the deck.
Then, with utmost deliberation, he turned to his fellows and demanded
loudly and huskily:
"Who in hell's the old stiff, anyways?"
I saw Mr. Pike's huge form tense convulsively and involuntarily, and I
noted the way his huge hands strained in their clutch on the
bridge-railing.  Beyond that he controlled himself.
"Go on, you," he said.  "I'll have nothing out of you.  Get into the
fo'c's'le."
And then, to my surprise, he turned and walked aft along the bridge to
where the tug was casting off its lines.  So this was all his high and
mighty talk of kill and drive, I thought.  Not until afterwards did I
recollect, as I turned aft down the deck, that I saw Captain West leaning
on the rail at the break of the poop and gazing for'ard.
The tug's lines were being cast off, and I was interested in watching the
manoeuvre until she had backed clear of the ship, at which moment, from
for'ard, arose a queer babel of howling and yelping, as numbers of
drunken voices cried out that a man was overboard.  The second mate
sprang down the poop-ladder and darted past me along the deck.  The mate,
still on the slender, white-painted bridge, that seemed no more than a
spider thread, surprised me by the activity with which he dashed along
the bridge to the 'midship house, leaped upon the canvas-covered long-
boat, and swung outboard where he might see.  Before the men could
clamber upon the rail the second mate was among them, and it was he who
flung a coil of line overboard.
