"And two days after, Neewak sent greeting and invitation to his
igloo.  Moosu went, but I sat alone, with the song of the still in
my ears, and the air thick with the shaman's tobacco; for trade was
slack that night, and no one dropped in but Angeit, a young hunter
that had faith in me.  Later, Moosu came back, his speech thick
with chuckling and his eyes wrinkling with laughter.
"'Thou art a great man,' he said.  'Thou art a great man, O master,
and because of thy greatness thou wilt not condemn Moosu, thy
servant, who ofttimes doubts and cannot be made to understand.'
"'And wherefore now?' I demanded.  'Hast thou drunk overmuch?  And
are they sleeping sound in the igloo of Neewak, the shaman?'
"'Nay, they are angered and sore of body, and Chief Tummasook has
thrust his thumbs in the throat of Neewak, and sworn by the bones
of his ancestors to look upon his face no more.  For behold! I went
to the igloo, and the brew simmered and bubbled, and the steam
journeyed through the gooseneck even as thy steam, and even as
thine it became water where it met the ice, and dropped into the
pot at the far end.  And Neewak gave us to drink, and lo, it was
not like thine, for there was no bite to the tongue nor tingling to
the eyeballs, and of a truth it was water.  So we drank, and we
drank overmuch; yet did we sit with cold hearts and solemn.  And
Neewak was perplexed and a cloud came on his brow.  And he took
Tummasook and Ipsukuk alone of all the company and set them apart,
and bade them drink and drink and drink.  And they drank and drank
and drank, and yet sat solemn and cold, till Tummasook arose in
wrath and demanded back the furs and the tea he had paid.  And
Ipsukuk raised her voice, thin and angry.  And the company demanded
back what they had given, and there was a great commotion.'
"'Does the son of a dog deem me a whale?' demanded Tummasook,
shoving back the skin flap and standing erect, his face black and
his brows angry.  'Wherefore I am filled, like a fish-bladder, to
bursting, till I can scarce walk, what of the weight within me.
Lalah!  I have drunken as never before, yet are my eyes clear, my
knees strong, my hand steady.'
"'The shaman cannot send us to sleep with the gods,' the people
complained, stringing in and joining us, 'and only in thy igloo may
the thing be done.'
"So I laughed to myself as I passed the hooch around and the guests
made merry.  For in the flour I had traded to Neewak I had mixed
much soda that I had got from the woman Ipsukuk.  So how could his
brew ferment when the soda kept it sweet?  Or his hooch be hooch
when it would not sour?
"After that our wealth flowed in without let or hindrance.  Furs we
had without number, and the fancy-work of the women, all of the
chief's tea, and no end of meat.  One day Moosu retold for my
benefit, and sadly mangled, the story of Joseph in Egypt, but from
it I got an idea, and soon I had half the tribe at work building me
great meat caches.  And of all they hunted I got the lion's share
and stored it away.  Nor was Moosu idle.  He made himself a pack of
cards from birch bark, and taught Neewak the way to play seven-up.
He also inveigled the father of Tukeliketa into the game.  And one
day he married the maiden, and the next day he moved into the
shaman's house, which was the finest in the village.  The fall of
Neewak was complete, for he lost all his possessions, his walrus-
hide drums, his incantation tools--everything.  And in the end he
became a hewer of wood and drawer of water at the beck and call of
Moosu.  And Moosu--he set himself up as shaman, or high priest, and
out of his garbled Scripture created new gods and made incantation
before strange altars.
