"You are my brother," he said.
"Why, everybody knows that," was the reply, in tones of wonderment.
"Yes, so I understand," Percival Ford said dryly.  "But I did not know it
till this evening."
The half-brother waited uncomfortably in the silence that followed,
during which Percival Ford coolly considered his next utterance.
"You remember that first time I came to school and the boys ducked me?"
he asked.  "Why did you take my part?"
The half-brother smiled bashfully.
"Because you knew?"
"Yes, that was why."
"But I didn't know," Percival Ford said in the same dry fashion.
"Yes," the other said.
Another silence fell.  Servants were beginning to put out the lights on
the _lanai_.
"You know . . . now," the half-brother said simply.
Percival Ford frowned.  Then he looked the other over with a considering
eye.
"How much will you take to leave the Islands and never come back?" he
demanded.
"And never come back?" Joe Garland faltered.  "It is the only land I
know.  Other lands are cold.  I do not know other lands.  I have many
friends here.  In other lands there would not be one voice to say,
'_Aloha_, Joe, my boy.'"
"I said never to come back," Percival Ford reiterated.  "The _Alameda_
sails tomorrow for San Francisco."
Joe Garland was bewildered.
"But why?" he asked.  "You know now that we are brothers."
"That is why," was the retort.  "As you said yourself, everybody knows.  I
will make it worth your while."
All awkwardness and embarrassment disappeared from Joe Garland.  Birth
and station were bridged and reversed.
"You want me to go?" he demanded.
"I want you to go and never come back," Percival Ford answered.
And in that moment, flashing and fleeting, it was given him to see his
brother tower above him like a mountain, and to feel himself dwindle and
dwarf to microscopic insignificance.  But it is not well for one to see
himself truly, nor can one so see himself for long and live; and only for
that flashing moment did Percival Ford see himself and his brother in
true perspective.  The next moment he was mastered by his meagre and
insatiable ego.
"As I said, I will make it worth your while.  You will not suffer.  I
will pay you well."
"All right," Joe Garland said.  "I'll go."
He started to turn away.
"Joe," the other called.  "You see my lawyer tomorrow morning.  Five
hundred down and two hundred a month as long as you stay away."
"You are very kind," Joe Garland answered softly.  "You are too kind.  And
anyway, I guess I don't want your money.  I go tomorrow on the
_Alameda_."
He walked away, but did not say good-bye.
Percival Ford clapped his hands.
"Boy," he said to the Japanese, "a lemonade."
And over the lemonade he smiled long and contentedly to himself.
KOOLAU THE LEPER
"Because we are sick they take away our liberty.  We have obeyed the law.
We have done no wrong.  And yet they would put us in prison.  Molokai is
a prison.  That you know.  Niuli, there, his sister was sent to Molokai
seven years ago.  He has not seen her since.  Nor will he ever see her.
She must stay there until she dies.  This is not her will.  It is not
Niuli's will.  It is the will of the white men who rule the land.  And
who are these white men?
