Later in the morning I received a surprise of a totally different sort.
Following the cook's instructions, I had gone into Wolf Larsen's
state-room to put it to rights and make the bed.  Against the wall, near
the head of the bunk, was a rack filled with books.  I glanced over them,
noting with astonishment such names as Shakespeare, Tennyson, Poe, and De
Quincey.  There were scientific works, too, among which were represented
men such as Tyndall, Proctor, and Darwin.  Astronomy and physics were
represented, and I remarked Bulfinch's _Age of Fable_, Shaw's _History of
English and American Literature_, and Johnson's _Natural History_ in two
large volumes.  Then there were a number of grammars, such as Metcalf's,
and Reed and Kellogg's; and I smiled as I saw a copy of _The Dean's
English_.
I could not reconcile these books with the man from what I had seen of
him, and I wondered if he could possibly read them.  But when I came to
make the bed I found, between the blankets, dropped apparently as he had
sunk off to sleep, a complete Browning, the Cambridge Edition.  It was
open at "In a Balcony," and I noticed, here and there, passages
underlined in pencil.  Further, letting drop the volume during a lurch of
the ship, a sheet of paper fell out.  It was scrawled over with
geometrical diagrams and calculations of some sort.
It was patent that this terrible man was no ignorant clod, such as one
would inevitably suppose him to be from his exhibitions of brutality.  At
once he became an enigma.  One side or the other of his nature was
perfectly comprehensible; but both sides together were bewildering.  I
had already remarked that his language was excellent, marred with an
occasional slight inaccuracy.  Of course, in common speech with the
sailors and hunters, it sometimes fairly bristled with errors, which was
due to the vernacular itself; but in the few words he had held with me it
had been clear and correct.
This glimpse I had caught of his other side must have emboldened me, for
I resolved to speak to him about the money I had lost.
"I have been robbed," I said to him, a little later, when I found him
pacing up and down the poop alone.
"Sir," he corrected, not harshly, but sternly.
"I have been robbed, sir," I amended.
"How did it happen?" he asked.
Then I told him the whole circumstance, how my clothes had been left to
dry in the galley, and how, later, I was nearly beaten by the cook when I
mentioned the matter.
He smiled at my recital.  "Pickings," he concluded; "Cooky's pickings.
And don't you think your miserable life worth the price?  Besides,
consider it a lesson.  You'll learn in time how to take care of your
money for yourself.  I suppose, up to now, your lawyer has done it for
you, or your business agent."
I could feel the quiet sneer through his words, but demanded, "How can I
get it back again?"
