Thling-Tinneh was trying to speak, but his people drowned his voice.
Then Mackenzie strode forward. The Fox opened his mouth to a piercing
yell, but so savagely did Mackenzie whirl upon him that he shrank back,
his larynx all agurgle with suppressed sound. His discomfiture was
greeted with roars of laughter, and served to soothe his fellows to a
listening mood.
'Brothers! The White Man, whom ye have chosen to call the Wolf, came
among you with fair words. He was not like the Innuit; he spoke not
lies. He came as a friend, as one who would be a brother. But your men
have had their say, and the time for soft words is past.
'First, I will tell you that the Shaman has an evil tongue and is a
false prophet, that the messages he spake are not those of the
Fire-Bringer. His ears are locked to the voice of the Raven, and out of
his own head he weaves cunning fancies, and he has made fools of you.
He has no power.
'When the dogs were killed and eaten, and your stomachs were heavy with
untanned hide and strips of moccasins; when the old men died, and the
old women died, and the babes at the dry dugs of the mothers died; when
the land was dark, and ye perished as do the salmon in the fall; aye,
when the famine was upon you, did the Shaman bring reward to your
hunters? did the Shaman put meat in your bellies? Again I say, the
Shaman is without power. Thus I spit upon his face!' Though taken aback
by the sacrilege, there was no uproar. Some of the women were even
frightened, but among the men there was an uplifting, as though in
preparation or anticipation of the miracle. All eyes were turned upon
the two central figures. The priest realized the crucial moment, felt
his power tottering, opened his mouth in denunciation, but fled
backward before the truculent advance, upraised fist, and flashing
eyes, of Mackenzie. He sneered and resumed.
'Was I stricken dead? Did the lightning burn me? Did the stars fall
from the sky and crush me? Pish! I have done with the dog. Now will I
tell you of my people, who are the mightiest of all the peoples, who
rule in all the lands. At first we hunt as I hunt, alone.
'After that we hunt in packs; and at last, like the cariboo-run, we
sweep across all the land.
'Those whom we take into our lodges live; those who will not come die.
Zarinska is a comely maiden, full and strong, fit to become the mother
of Wolves. Though I die, such shall she become; for my brothers are
many, and they will follow the scent of my dogs.
'Listen to the Law of the Wolf: Whoso taketh the life of one Wolf, the
forfeit shall ten of his people pay. In many lands has the price been
paid; in many lands shall it yet be paid.
