At ten, to the stroke of the clock, as Pittman, Forrest's show-manager,
entered the office, Blake, burdened with trays of correspondence,
sheafs of documents, and phonograph cylinders, faded away to his own
office.
From ten to eleven a stream of managers and foremen flowed in and out.
All were well disciplined in terseness and time-saving. As Dick Forrest
had taught them, the minutes spent with him were not minutes of
cogitation. They must be prepared before they reported or suggested.
Bonbright, the assistant secretary, always arrived at ten to replace
Blake; and Bonbright, close to shoulder, with flying pencil, took down
the rapid-fire interchange of question and answer, statement and
proposal and plan. These shorthand notes, transcribed and typed in
duplicate, were the nightmare and, on occasion, the Nemesis, of the
managers and foremen. For, first, Forrest had a remarkable memory; and,
second, he was prone to prove its worth by reference to those same
notes of Bonbright.
A manager, at the end of a five or ten minute session, often emerged
sweating, limp and frazzled. Yet for a swift hour, at high tension,
Forrest met all comers, with a master's grip handling them and all the
multifarious details of their various departments. He told Thompson,
the machinist, in four flashing minutes, where the fault lay in the
dynamo to the Big House refrigerator, laid the fault home to Thompson,
dictated a note to Bonbright, with citation by page and chapter to a
volume from the library to be drawn by Thompson, told Thompson that
Parkman, the dairy manager, was not satisfied with the latest wiring up
of milking machines, and that the refrigerating plant at the slaughter
house was balking at its accustomed load.
Each man was a specialist, yet Forrest was the proved master of their
specialties. As Paulson, the head plowman, complained privily to
Dawson, the crop manager: "I've worked here twelve years and never have
I seen him put his hands to a plow, and yet, damn him, he somehow seems
to know. He's a genius, that's what he is. Why, d'ye know, I've seen
him tear by a piece of work, his hands full with that Man-Eater of his
a-threatenin' sudden funeral, an', next morning, had 'm mention
casually to a half-inch how deep it was plowed an' what plows'd done
the plowin'!--Take that plowin' of the Poppy Meadow, up above Little
Meadow, on Los Cuatos. I just couldn't see my way to it, an' had to cut
out the cross-sub-soiling, an' thought I could slip it over on him.
After it was all finished he kind of happened up that way--I was
lookin' an' he didn't seem to look--an', well, next A.M. I got mine in
the office. No; I didn't slip it over. I ain't tried to slip nothing
over since."
At eleven sharp, Wardman, his sheep manager, departed with an
engagement scheduled at eleven: thirty to ride in the machine along
with Thayer, the Idaho buyer, to look over the Shropshire rams. At
eleven, Bonbright having departed with Wardman to work up his notes,
Forrest was left alone in the office. From a wire tray of unfinished
business--one of many wire trays superimposed in groups of five--he
drew a pamphlet issued by the State of Iowa on hog cholera and
proceeded to scan it.
