At Usal, many hilly and picturesque miles north of Fort Bragg, we turned
again into the interior of Mendocino, crossing the ranges and coming out
in Humboldt County on the south fork of Eel River at Garberville.
Throughout the trip, from Marin County north, we had been warned of "bad
roads ahead."  Yet we never found those bad roads.  We seemed always to
be just ahead of them or behind them.  The farther we came the better the
roads seemed, though this was probably due to the fact that we were
learning more and more what four horses and a light rig could do on a
road.  And thus do I save my face with all the counties.  I refuse to
make invidious road comparisons.  I can add that while, save in rare
instances on steep pitches, I have trotted my horses down all the grades,
I have never had one horse fall down nor have I had to send the rig to a
blacksmith shop for repairs.
Also, I am learning to throw leather.  If any tyro thinks it is easy to
take a short-handled, long-lashed whip, and throw the end of that lash
just where he wants it, let him put on automobile goggles and try it.  On
reconsideration, I would suggest the substitution of a wire fencing-mask
for the goggles.  For days I looked at that whip.  It fascinated me, and
the fascination was composed mostly of fear.  At my first attempt,
Charmian and Nakata became afflicted with the same sort of fascination,
and for a long time afterward, whenever they saw me reach for the whip,
they closed their eyes and shielded their heads with their arms.
Here's the problem.  Instead of pulling honestly, Prince is lagging back
and manoeuvring for a bite at Milda's neck.  I have four reins in my
hands.  I must put these four reins into my left hand, properly gather
the whip handle and the bight of the lash in my right hand, and throw
that lash past Maid without striking her and into Prince.  If the lash
strikes Maid, her thoroughbredness will go up in the air, and I'll have a
case of horse hysteria on my hands for the next half hour.  But follow.
The whole problem is not yet stated.  Suppose that I miss Maid and reach
the intended target.  The instant the lash cracks, the four horses jump,
Prince most of all, and his jump, with spread wicked teeth, is for the
back of Milda's neck.  She jumps to escape--which is her second jump, for
the first one came when the lash exploded.  The Outlaw reaches for Maid's
neck, and Maid, who has already jumped and tried to bolt, tries to bolt
harder.  And all this infinitesimal fraction of time I am trying to hold
the four animals with my left hand, while my whip-lash, writhing through
the air, is coming back to me.  Three simultaneous things I must do: keep
hold of the four reins with my left hand; slam on the brake with my foot;
and on the rebound catch that flying lash in the hollow of my right arm
and get the bight of it safely into my right hand.  Then I must get two
of the four lines back into my right hand and keep the horses from
running away or going over the grade.  Try it some time.  You will find
life anything but wearisome.  Why, the first time I hit the mark and made
the lash go off like a revolver shot, I was so astounded and delighted
that I was paralysed.  I forgot to do any of the multitudinous other
things, tangled the whip lash in Maid's harness, and was forced to call
upon Charmian for assistance.  And now, confession.  I carry a few
pebbles handy.  They're great for reaching Prince in a tight place.  But
just the same I'm learning that whip every day, and before I get home I
hope to discard the pebbles.  And as long as I rely on pebbles, I cannot
truthfully speak of myself as "tooling a four-in-hand."
