One Eye was hungry.  Though he lay down in the entrance and slept, his
sleep was fitful.  He kept awaking and cocking his ears at the bright
world without, where the April sun was blazing across the snow.  When he
dozed, upon his ears would steal the faint whispers of hidden trickles of
running water, and he would rouse and listen intently.  The sun had come
back, and all the awakening Northland world was calling to him.  Life was
stirring.  The feel of spring was in the air, the feel of growing life
under the snow, of sap ascending in the trees, of buds bursting the
shackles of the frost.
He cast anxious glances at his mate, but she showed no desire to get up.
He looked outside, and half a dozen snow-birds fluttered across his field
of vision.  He started to get up, then looked back to his mate again, and
settled down and dozed.  A shrill and minute singing stole upon his
hearing.  Once, and twice, he sleepily brushed his nose with his paw.
Then he woke up.  There, buzzing in the air at the tip of his nose, was a
lone mosquito.  It was a full-grown mosquito, one that had lain frozen in
a dry log all winter and that had now been thawed out by the sun.  He
could resist the call of the world no longer.  Besides, he was hungry.
He crawled over to his mate and tried to persuade her to get up.  But she
only snarled at him, and he walked out alone into the bright sunshine to
find the snow-surface soft under foot and the travelling difficult.  He
went up the frozen bed of the stream, where the snow, shaded by the
trees, was yet hard and crystalline.  He was gone eight hours, and he
came back through the darkness hungrier than when he had started.  He had
found game, but he had not caught it.  He had broken through the melting
snow crust, and wallowed, while the snowshoe rabbits had skimmed along on
top lightly as ever.
He paused at the mouth of the cave with a sudden shock of suspicion.
Faint, strange sounds came from within.  They were sounds not made by his
mate, and yet they were remotely familiar.  He bellied cautiously inside
and was met by a warning snarl from the she-wolf.  This he received
without perturbation, though he obeyed it by keeping his distance; but he
remained interested in the other sounds--faint, muffled sobbings and
slubberings.
His mate warned him irritably away, and he curled up and slept in the
entrance.  When morning came and a dim light pervaded the lair, he again
sought after the source of the remotely familiar sounds.  There was a new
note in his mate's warning snarl.  It was a jealous note, and he was very
careful in keeping a respectful distance.  Nevertheless, he made out,
sheltering between her legs against the length of her body, five strange
little bundles of life, very feeble, very helpless, making tiny
whimpering noises, with eyes that did not open to the light.  He was
surprised.  It was not the first time in his long and successful life
that this thing had happened.  It had happened many times, yet each time
it was as fresh a surprise as ever to him.
