The ex-queen of England had, even during infancy, endeavoured to implant
daring and ambitious designs in the mind of her son. She saw that he was
endowed with genius and surpassing talent; these she cultivated for the
sake of afterwards using them for the furtherance of her own views. She
encouraged his craving for knowledge and his impetuous courage; she even
tolerated his tameless love of freedom, under the hope that this would, as
is too often the case, lead to a passion for command. She endeavoured to
bring him up in a sense of resentment towards, and a desire to revenge
himself upon, those who had been instrumental in bringing about his
father's abdication. In this she did not succeed. The accounts furnished
him, however distorted, of a great and wise nation asserting its right to
govern itself, excited his admiration: in early days he became a republican
from principle. Still his mother did not despair. To the love of rule and
haughty pride of birth she added determined ambition, patience, and
self-control. She devoted herself to the study of her son's disposition. By
the application of praise, censure, and exhortation, she tried to seek and
strike the fitting chords; and though the melody that followed her touch
seemed discord to her, she built her hopes on his talents, and felt sure
that she would at last win him. The kind of banishment he now experienced
arose from other causes.
The ex-queen had also a daughter, now twelve years of age; his fairy
sister, Adrian was wont to call her; a lovely, animated, little thing, all
sensibility and truth. With these, her children, the noble widow constantly
resided at Windsor; and admitted no visitors, except her own partizans,
travellers from her native Germany, and a few of the foreign ministers.
Among these, and highly distinguished by her, was Prince Zaimi, ambassador
to England from the free States of Greece; and his daughter, the young
Princess Evadne, passed much of her time at Windsor Castle. In company with
this sprightly and clever Greek girl, the Countess would relax from her
usual state. Her views with regard to her own children, placed all her
words and actions relative to them under restraint: but Evadne was a
plaything she could in no way fear; nor were her talents and vivacity
slight alleviations to the monotony of the Countess's life.
Evadne was eighteen years of age. Although they spent much time together at
Windsor, the extreme youth of Adrian prevented any suspicion as to the
nature of their intercourse. But he was ardent and tender of heart beyond
the common nature of man, and had already learnt to love, while the
beauteous Greek smiled benignantly on the boy. It was strange to me, who,
though older than Adrian, had never loved, to witness the whole heart's
sacrifice of my friend. There was neither jealousy, inquietude, or mistrust
in his sentiment; it was devotion and faith. His life was swallowed up in
the existence of his beloved; and his heart beat only in unison with the
pulsations that vivified hers. This was the secret law of his life--he
loved and was beloved. The universe was to him a dwelling, to inhabit with
his chosen one; and not either a scheme of society or an enchainment of
events, that could impart to him either happiness or misery. What, though
life and the system of social intercourse were a wilderness, a
tiger-haunted jungle! Through the midst of its errors, in the depths of its
savage recesses, there was a disentangled and flowery pathway, through
which they might journey in safety and delight. Their track would be like
the passage of the Red Sea, which they might traverse with unwet feet,
though a wall of destruction were impending on either side.
