I executed my Plan with great Punctuality. I can not say success, for
alas! my silence while she played seemed not in the least to displease
her; on the contrary she actually said to me one day "Well Charlotte,
I am very glad to find that you have at last left off that ridiculous
custom of applauding my Execution on the Harpsichord till you made
my head ake, and yourself hoarse. I feel very much obliged to you for
keeping your admiration to yourself." I never shall forget the very
witty answer I made to this speech. "Eloisa (said I) I beg you would
be quite at your Ease with respect to all such fears in future, for
be assured that I shall always keep my admiration to myself and my own
pursuits and never extend it to yours." This was the only very severe
thing I ever said in my Life; not but that I have often felt myself
extremely satirical but it was the only time I ever made my feelings
public.
I suppose there never were two Young people who had a greater affection
for each other than Henry and Eloisa; no, the Love of your Brother for
Miss Burton could not be so strong tho' it might be more violent. You
may imagine therefore how provoked my Sister must have been to have
him play her such a trick. Poor girl! she still laments his Death with
undiminished constancy, notwithstanding he has been dead more than six
weeks; but some People mind such things more than others. The ill state
of Health into which his loss has thrown her makes her so weak, and so
unable to support the least exertion, that she has been in tears all
this Morning merely from having taken leave of Mrs. Marlowe who with her
Husband, Brother and Child are to leave Bristol this morning. I am sorry
to have them go because they are the only family with whom we have here
any acquaintance, but I never thought of crying; to be sure Eloisa
and Mrs Marlowe have always been more together than with me, and have
therefore contracted a kind of affection for each other, which does not
make Tears so inexcusable in them as they would be in me. The Marlowes
are going to Town; Cliveland accompanies them; as neither Eloisa nor I
could catch him I hope you or Matilda may have better Luck. I know not
when we shall leave Bristol, Eloisa's spirits are so low that she is
very averse to moving, and yet is certainly by no means mended by her
residence here. A week or two will I hope determine our Measures--in the
mean time believe me and etc--and etc--Charlotte Lutterell.
LETTER the EIGHTH Miss LUTTERELL to Mrs MARLOWE Bristol April 4th
I feel myself greatly obliged to you my dear Emma for such a mark of
your affection as I flatter myself was conveyed in the proposal you made
me of our Corresponding; I assure you that it will be a great releif to
me to write to you and as long as my Health and Spirits will allow
me, you will find me a very constant correspondent; I will not say
an entertaining one, for you know my situation suffciently not to be
ignorant that in me Mirth would be improper and I know my own Heart too
well not to be sensible that it would be unnatural. You must not expect
news for we see no one with whom we are in the least acquainted, or in
whose proceedings we have any Interest. You must not expect scandal
for by the same rule we are equally debarred either from hearing or
inventing it.--You must expect from me nothing but the melancholy
effusions of a broken Heart which is ever reverting to the Happiness
it once enjoyed and which ill supports its present wretchedness. The
Possibility of being able to write, to speak, to you of my lost Henry
will be a luxury to me, and your goodness will not I know refuse to read
what it will so much releive my Heart to write. I once thought that to
have what is in general called a Freind (I mean one of my own sex
to whom I might speak with less reserve than to any other person)
independant of my sister would never be an object of my wishes, but how
much was I mistaken! Charlotte is too much engrossed by two confidential
correspondents of that sort, to supply the place of one to me, and I
hope you will not think me girlishly romantic, when I say that to
have some kind and compassionate Freind who might listen to my sorrows
without endeavouring to console me was what I had for some time wished
for, when our acquaintance with you, the intimacy which followed it and
the particular affectionate attention you paid me almost from the first,
caused me to entertain the flattering Idea of those attentions being
improved on a closer acquaintance into a Freindship which, if you were
what my wishes formed you would be the greatest Happiness I could
be capable of enjoying. To find that such Hopes are realised is a
satisfaction indeed, a satisfaction which is now almost the only one I
can ever experience.--I feel myself so languid that I am sure were you
with me you would oblige me to leave off writing, and I cannot give you
a greater proof of my affection for you than by acting, as I know you
would wish me to do, whether Absent or Present. I am my dear Emmas
sincere freind E. L.
