LETTER the FOURTH From Miss C. LUTTERELL to Miss M. LESLEY Bristol
February 27th
My Dear Peggy I have but just received your letter, which being directed
to Sussex while I was at Bristol was obliged to be forwarded to me here,
and from some unaccountable Delay, has but this instant reached me--.
I return you many thanks for the account it contains of Lesley's
acquaintance, Love and Marriage with Louisa, which has not the less
entertained me for having often been repeated to me before.
I have the satisfaction of informing you that we have every reason to
imagine our pantry is by this time nearly cleared, as we left Particular
orders with the servants to eat as hard as they possibly could, and to
call in a couple of Chairwomen to assist them. We brought a cold Pigeon
pye, a cold turkey, a cold tongue, and half a dozen Jellies with us,
which we were lucky enough with the help of our Landlady, her husband,
and their three children, to get rid of, in less than two days after
our arrival. Poor Eloisa is still so very indifferent both in Health and
Spirits, that I very much fear, the air of the Bristol downs, healthy as
it is, has not been able to drive poor Henry from her remembrance.
You ask me whether your new Mother in law is handsome and amiable--I
will now give you an exact description of her bodily and mental charms.
She is short, and extremely well made; is naturally pale, but rouges a
good deal; has fine eyes, and fine teeth, as she will take care to let
you know as soon as she sees you, and is altogether very pretty. She is
remarkably good-tempered when she has her own way, and very lively when
she is not out of humour. She is naturally extravagant and not very
affected; she never reads anything but the letters she receives from me,
and never writes anything but her answers to them. She plays, sings and
Dances, but has no taste for either, and excells in none, tho' she says
she is passionately fond of all. Perhaps you may flatter me so far as to
be surprised that one of whom I speak with so little affection should
be my particular freind; but to tell you the truth, our freindship arose
rather from Caprice on her side than Esteem on mine. We spent two or
three days together with a Lady in Berkshire with whom we both happened
to be connected--. During our visit, the Weather being remarkably bad,
and our party particularly stupid, she was so good as to conceive
a violent partiality for me, which very soon settled in a downright
Freindship and ended in an established correspondence. She is probably
by this time as tired of me, as I am of her; but as she is too Polite
and I am too civil to say so, our letters are still as frequent and
affectionate as ever, and our Attachment as firm and sincere as when it
first commenced. As she had a great taste for the pleasures of London,
and of Brighthelmstone, she will I dare say find some difficulty in
prevailing on herself even to satisfy the curiosity I dare say she feels
of beholding you, at the expence of quitting those favourite haunts of
Dissipation, for the melancholy tho' venerable gloom of the castle you
inhabit. Perhaps however if she finds her health impaired by too much
amusement, she may acquire fortitude sufficient to undertake a Journey
to Scotland in the hope of its Proving at least beneficial to her
health, if not conducive to her happiness. Your fears I am sorry to say,
concerning your father's extravagance, your own fortunes, your Mothers
Jewels and your Sister's consequence, I should suppose are but too well
founded. My freind herself has four thousand pounds, and will probably
spend nearly as much every year in Dress and Public places, if she can
get it--she will certainly not endeavour to reclaim Sir George from the
manner of living to which he has been so long accustomed, and there is
therefore some reason to fear that you will be very well off, if you get
any fortune at all. The Jewels I should imagine too will undoubtedly be
hers, and there is too much reason to think that she will preside at
her Husbands table in preference to his Daughter. But as so melancholy a
subject must necessarily extremely distress you, I will no longer dwell
on it--.
