After having so nobly disentangled themselves from the shackles of
Parental Authority, by a Clandestine Marriage, they were determined
never to forfeit the good opinion they had gained in the World, in
so doing, by accepting any proposals of reconciliation that might be
offered them by their Fathers--to this farther tryal of their noble
independance however they never were exposed.
They had been married but a few months when our visit to them commenced
during which time they had been amply supported by a considerable sum of
money which Augustus had gracefully purloined from his unworthy father's
Escritoire, a few days before his union with Sophia.
By our arrival their Expenses were considerably encreased tho' their
means for supplying them were then nearly exhausted. But they, Exalted
Creatures! scorned to reflect a moment on their pecuniary Distresses and
would have blushed at the idea of paying their Debts.--Alas! what was
their Reward for such disinterested Behaviour! The beautifull Augustus
was arrested and we were all undone. Such perfidious Treachery in the
merciless perpetrators of the Deed will shock your gentle nature Dearest
Marianne as much as it then affected the Delicate sensibility of
Edward, Sophia, your Laura, and of Augustus himself. To compleat such
unparalelled Barbarity we were informed that an Execution in the House
would shortly take place. Ah! what could we do but what we did! We
sighed and fainted on the sofa. Adeiu Laura.
LETTER 10th LAURA in continuation
When we were somewhat recovered from the overpowering Effusions of our
grief, Edward desired that we would consider what was the most prudent
step to be taken in our unhappy situation while he repaired to his
imprisoned freind to lament over his misfortunes. We promised that we
would, and he set forwards on his journey to Town. During his absence
we faithfully complied with his Desire and after the most mature
Deliberation, at length agreed that the best thing we could do was
to leave the House; of which we every moment expected the officers
of Justice to take possession. We waited therefore with the greatest
impatience, for the return of Edward in order to impart to him the
result of our Deliberations. But no Edward appeared. In vain did we
count the tedious moments of his absence--in vain did we weep--in
vain even did we sigh--no Edward returned--. This was too cruel, too
unexpected a Blow to our Gentle Sensibility--we could not support it--we
could only faint. At length collecting all the Resolution I was Mistress
of, I arose and after packing up some necessary apparel for Sophia and
myself, I dragged her to a Carriage I had ordered and we instantly set
out for London. As the Habitation of Augustus was within twelve miles
of Town, it was not long e'er we arrived there, and no sooner had we
entered Holboun than letting down one of the Front Glasses I enquired of
every decent-looking Person that we passed "If they had seen my Edward?"
But as we drove too rapidly to allow them to answer my repeated
Enquiries, I gained little, or indeed, no information concerning him.
"Where am I to drive?" said the Postilion. "To Newgate Gentle Youth
(replied I), to see Augustus." "Oh! no, no, (exclaimed Sophia) I cannot
go to Newgate; I shall not be able to support the sight of my Augustus
in so cruel a confinement--my feelings are sufficiently shocked by
the RECITAL, of his Distress, but to behold it will overpower my
Sensibility." As I perfectly agreed with her in the Justice of her
Sentiments the Postilion was instantly directed to return into the
Country. You may perhaps have been somewhat surprised my Dearest
Marianne, that in the Distress I then endured, destitute of any support,
and unprovided with any Habitation, I should never once have remembered
my Father and Mother or my paternal Cottage in the Vale of Uske. To
account for this seeming forgetfullness I must inform you of a trifling
circumstance concerning them which I have as yet never mentioned. The
death of my Parents a few weeks after my Departure, is the circumstance
I allude to. By their decease I became the lawfull Inheritress of their
House and Fortune. But alas! the House had never been their own and
their Fortune had only been an Annuity on their own Lives. Such is
the Depravity of the World! To your Mother I should have returned with
Pleasure, should have been happy to have introduced to her, my charming
Sophia and should with Chearfullness have passed the remainder of my
Life in their dear Society in the Vale of Uske, had not one obstacle
to the execution of so agreable a scheme, intervened; which was the
Marriage and Removal of your Mother to a distant part of Ireland. Adeiu
Laura.
