"So far from having ever declared it, I have no reason to imagine that
he has ever felt any for me." said Janetta. "That he certainly adores
you (replied Sophia) there can be no doubt--. The Attachment must be
reciprocal. Did he never gaze on you with admiration--tenderly press
your hand--drop an involantary tear--and leave the room abruptly?"
"Never (replied she) that I remember--he has always left the room indeed
when his visit has been ended, but has never gone away particularly
abruptly or without making a bow." Indeed my Love (said I) you must be
mistaken--for it is absolutely impossible that he should ever have left
you but with Confusion, Despair, and Precipitation. Consider but for a
moment Janetta, and you must be convinced how absurd it is to suppose
that he could ever make a Bow, or behave like any other Person."
Having settled this Point to our satisfaction, the next we took into
consideration was, to determine in what manner we should inform M'Kenrie
of the favourable Opinion Janetta entertained of him.... We at length
agreed to acquaint him with it by an anonymous Letter which Sophia drew
up in the following manner.
"Oh! happy Lover of the beautifull Janetta, oh! amiable Possessor of
HER Heart whose hand is destined to another, why do you thus delay a
confession of your attachment to the amiable Object of it? Oh! consider
that a few weeks will at once put an end to every flattering Hope that
you may now entertain, by uniting the unfortunate Victim of her father's
Cruelty to the execrable and detested Graham."
"Alas! why do you thus so cruelly connive at the projected Misery of
her and of yourself by delaying to communicate that scheme which had
doubtless long possessed your imagination? A secret Union will at once
secure the felicity of both."
The amiable M'Kenrie, whose modesty as he afterwards assured us had
been the only reason of his having so long concealed the violence of
his affection for Janetta, on receiving this Billet flew on the wings of
Love to Macdonald-Hall, and so powerfully pleaded his Attachment to her
who inspired it, that after a few more private interveiws, Sophia and
I experienced the satisfaction of seeing them depart for Gretna-Green,
which they chose for the celebration of their Nuptials, in preference
to any other place although it was at a considerable distance from
Macdonald-Hall. Adeiu Laura.
LETTER the 13th LAURA in continuation
They had been gone nearly a couple of Hours, before either Macdonald or
Graham had entertained any suspicion of the affair. And they might not
even then have suspected it, but for the following little Accident.
Sophia happening one day to open a private Drawer in Macdonald's Library
with one of her own keys, discovered that it was the Place where he
kept his Papers of consequence and amongst them some bank notes of
considerable amount. This discovery she imparted to me; and having
agreed together that it would be a proper treatment of so vile a Wretch
as Macdonald to deprive him of money, perhaps dishonestly gained, it was
determined that the next time we should either of us happen to go that
way, we would take one or more of the Bank notes from the drawer. This
well meant Plan we had often successfully put in Execution; but alas!
on the very day of Janetta's Escape, as Sophia was majestically removing
the 5th Bank-note from the Drawer to her own purse, she was suddenly
most impertinently interrupted in her employment by the entrance of
Macdonald himself, in a most abrupt and precipitate Manner. Sophia (who
though naturally all winning sweetness could when occasions demanded it
call forth the Dignity of her sex) instantly put on a most forbidding
look, and darting an angry frown on the undaunted culprit, demanded in
a haughty tone of voice "Wherefore her retirement was thus insolently
broken in on?" The unblushing Macdonald, without even endeavouring to
exculpate himself from the crime he was charged with, meanly endeavoured
to reproach Sophia with ignobly defrauding him of his money... The
dignity of Sophia was wounded; "Wretch (exclaimed she, hastily replacing
the Bank-note in the Drawer) how darest thou to accuse me of an Act,
of which the bare idea makes me blush?" The base wretch was still
unconvinced and continued to upbraid the justly-offended Sophia in such
opprobious Language, that at length he so greatly provoked the gentle
sweetness of her Nature, as to induce her to revenge herself on him by
informing him of Janetta's Elopement, and of the active Part we had
both taken in the affair. At this period of their Quarrel I entered the
Library and was as you may imagine equally offended as Sophia at the
ill-grounded accusations of the malevolent and contemptible Macdonald.
"Base Miscreant! (cried I) how canst thou thus undauntedly endeavour to
sully the spotless reputation of such bright Excellence? Why dost thou
not suspect MY innocence as soon?" "Be satisfied Madam (replied he) I
DO suspect it, and therefore must desire that you will both leave this
House in less than half an hour."
