LETTER the SEVENTH From Miss C. LUTTERELL to Miss M. LESLEY Bristol the
27th of March
I have received Letters from you and your Mother-in-law within this week
which have greatly entertained me, as I find by them that you are both
downright jealous of each others Beauty. It is very odd that two pretty
Women tho' actually Mother and Daughter cannot be in the same House
without falling out about their faces. Do be convinced that you are both
perfectly handsome and say no more of the Matter. I suppose this letter
must be directed to Portman Square where probably (great as is your
affection for Lesley Castle) you will not be sorry to find yourself. In
spite of all that people may say about Green fields and the Country
I was always of opinion that London and its amusements must be very
agreable for a while, and should be very happy could my Mother's income
allow her to jockey us into its Public-places, during Winter. I always
longed particularly to go to Vaux-hall, to see whether the cold Beef
there is cut so thin as it is reported, for I have a sly suspicion that
few people understand the art of cutting a slice of cold Beef so well
as I do: nay it would be hard if I did not know something of the Matter,
for it was a part of my Education that I took by far the most pains
with. Mama always found me HER best scholar, tho' when Papa was
alive Eloisa was HIS. Never to be sure were there two more different
Dispositions in the World. We both loved Reading. SHE preferred
Histories, and I Receipts. She loved drawing, Pictures, and I drawing
Pullets. No one could sing a better song than she, and no one make a
better Pye than I.--And so it has always continued since we have been
no longer children. The only difference is that all disputes on the
superior excellence of our Employments THEN so frequent are now no more.
We have for many years entered into an agreement always to admire
each other's works; I never fail listening to HER Music, and she is as
constant in eating my pies. Such at least was the case till Henry Hervey
made his appearance in Sussex. Before the arrival of his Aunt in our
neighbourhood where she established herself you know about a twelvemonth
ago, his visits to her had been at stated times, and of equal and
settled Duration; but on her removal to the Hall which is within a walk
from our House, they became both more frequent and longer. This as you
may suppose could not be pleasing to Mrs Diana who is a professed enemy
to everything which is not directed by Decorum and Formality, or which
bears the least resemblance to Ease and Good-breeding. Nay so great was
her aversion to her Nephews behaviour that I have often heard her give
such hints of it before his face that had not Henry at such times been
engaged in conversation with Eloisa, they must have caught his Attention
and have very much distressed him. The alteration in my Sisters
behaviour which I have before hinted at, now took place. The Agreement
we had entered into of admiring each others productions she no
longer seemed to regard, and tho' I constantly applauded even every
Country-dance, she played, yet not even a pidgeon-pye of my making could
obtain from her a single word of approbation. This was certainly enough
to put any one in a Passion; however, I was as cool as a cream-cheese
and having formed my plan and concerted a scheme of Revenge, I was
determined to let her have her own way and not even to make her a single
reproach. My scheme was to treat her as she treated me, and tho' she
might even draw my own Picture or play Malbrook (which is the only tune
I ever really liked) not to say so much as "Thank you Eloisa;" tho'
I had for many years constantly hollowed whenever she played, BRAVO,
BRAVISSIMO, ENCORE, DA CAPO, ALLEGRETTO, CON EXPRESSIONE, and POCO
PRESTO with many other such outlandish words, all of them as Eloisa told
me expressive of my Admiration; and so indeed I suppose they are, as I
see some of them in every Page of every Music book, being the sentiments
I imagine of the composer.
