Mrs. Milles, Mr. John Toke, and in short everybody of any sensibility
inquired in tender strains after you, and I took an opportunity of
assuring Mr. J. T. that neither he nor his father need longer keep
themselves single for you.
We went in our two carriages to Nackington; but how we divided I shall
leave you to surmise, merely observing that as Elizabeth and I were
without either hat or bonnet, it would not have been very convenient for
us to go in the chaise. We went by Bifrons, and I contemplated with a
melancholy pleasure the abode of him on whom I once fondly doated. We
dine to-day at Goodnestone, to meet my aunt Fielding from Margate and a
Mr. Clayton, her professed admirer--at least, so I imagine. Lady Bridges
has received very good accounts of Marianne, who is already certainly
the better for her bathing.
So His Royal Highness Sir Thomas Williams has at length sailed; the
papers say "on a cruise." But I hope they are gone to Cork, or I shall
have written in vain. Give my love to Jane, as she arrived at Steventon
yesterday, I dare say.
I sent a message to Mr. Digweed from Edward in a letter to Mary Lloyd
which she ought to receive to-day; but as I know that the Harwoods are
not very exact as to their letters, I may as well repeat it to you. Mr.
Digweed is to be informed that illness has prevented Seward's coming
over to look at the repairs intended at the farm, but that he will come
as soon as he can. Mr. Digweed may also be informed, if you think
proper, that Mr. and Mrs. Milles are to dine here to-morrow, and that
Mrs. Joan Knatchbull is to be asked to meet them. Mr. Richard Harvey's
match is put off till he has got a better Christian name, of which he
has great hopes.
Mr. Children's two sons are both going to be married, John and George.
They are to have one wife between them, a Miss Holwell, who belongs to
the Black Hole at Calcutta. I depend on hearing from James very soon; he
promised me an account of the ball, and by this time he must have
collected his ideas enough after the fatigue of dancing to give me one.
Edward and Fly went out yesterday very early in a couple of shooting
jackets, and came home like a couple of bad shots, for they killed
nothing at all. They are out again to-day, and are not yet returned.
Delightful sport! They are just come home, Edward with his two brace,
Frank with his two and a half. What amiable young men!
_Friday._--Your letter and one from Henry are just come, and the
contents of both accord with my scheme more than I had dared expect. In
one particular I could wish it otherwise, for Henry is very indifferent
indeed. You must not expect us quite so early, however, as Wednesday,
the 20th,--on that day se'nnight, according to our present plan, we may
be with you. Frank had never any idea of going away before Monday, the
26th. I shall write to Miss Mason immediately, and press her returning
with us, which Henry thinks very likely, and particularly eligible.
