Mrs. Lefroy has just sent me word that Lady Dorchester meant to invite
me to her ball on January 8, which, though an humble blessing compared
with what the last page records, I do not consider as any calamity.
I cannot write any more now, but I have written enough to make you very
happy, and therefore may safely conclude.
                                     Yours affectionately,      JANE.
  Miss AUSTEN, Godmersham Park.
XII.
                              STEVENTON, Tuesday (January 8, 1799).
MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--You must read your letters over _five_ times in
future before you send them, and then, perhaps, you may find them as
entertaining as I do. I laughed at several parts of the one which I am
now answering.
Charles is not come yet, but he must come this morning, or he shall
never know what I will do to him. The ball at Kempshott is this evening,
and I have got him an invitation, though I have not been so considerate
as to get him a partner. But the cases are different between him and
Eliza Bailey, for he is not in a dying way, and may therefore be equal
to getting a partner for himself. I believe I told you that Monday was
to be the ball night, for which, and for all other errors into which I
may ever have led you, I humbly ask your pardon.
Elizabeth is very cruel about my writing music, and, as a punishment for
her, I should insist upon always writing out all hers for her in future,
if I were not punishing myself at the same time.
I am tolerably glad to hear that Edward's income is so good a one,--as
glad as I can be at anybody's being rich except you and me,--and I am
thoroughly rejoiced to hear of his present to you.
I am not to wear my white satin cap to-night, after all; I am to wear a
mamalone cap instead, which Charles Fowle sent to Mary, and which she
lends me. It is all the fashion now; worn at the opera, and by Lady
Mildmays at Hackwood balls. I hate describing such things, and I dare
say you will be able to guess what it is like. I have got over the
dreadful epocha of mantua-making much better than I expected. My gown is
made very much like my blue one, which you always told me sat very well,
with only these variations: the sleeves are short, the wrap fuller, the
apron comes over it, and a band of the same completes the whole.
I assure you that I dread the idea of going to Brighton as much as you
do, but I am not without hopes that something may happen to prevent it.
F---- has lost his election at B----, and perhaps they may not be able
to see company for some time. They talk of going to Bath, too, in the
spring, and perhaps they may be overturned in their way down, and all
laid up for the summer.
