Farmer Claringbould died this morning, and I fancy Edward means to get
some of his farm, if he can cheat Sir Brook enough in the agreement.
We have just got some venison from Godmersham, which the two Mr. Harveys
are to dine on to-morrow, and on Friday or Saturday the Goodnestone
people are to finish their scraps. Henry went away on Friday, as he
purposed, _without fayl_. You will hear from him soon, I imagine, as he
talked of writing to Steventon shortly. Mr. Richard Harvey is going to
be married; but as it is a great secret, and only known to half the
neighborhood, you must not mention it. The lady's name is Musgrave.
I am in great distress. I cannot determine whether I shall give Richis
half a guinea or only five shillings when I go away. Counsel me, amiable
Miss Austen, and tell me which will be the most.
We walked Frank last night to Crixhall Ruff, and he appeared much
edified. Little Edward was breeched yesterday for good and all, and was
whipped into the bargain.
Pray remember me to everybody who does not inquire after me; those who
do, remember me without bidding. Give my love to Mary Harrison, and
tell her I wish, whenever she is attached to a young man, some
respectable Dr. Marchmont may keep them apart for five volumes. . . .
IV.
                                    ROWLING, Thursday (September 15).
MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--We have been very gay since I wrote last; dining at
Nackington, returning by moonlight, and everything quite in style, not
to mention Mr. Claringbould's funeral which we saw go by on Sunday. I
believe I told you in a former letter that Edward had some idea of
taking the name of Claringbould; but that scheme is over, though it
would be a very eligible as well as a very pleasant plan, would any one
advance him money enough to begin on. We rather expected Mr. Milles to
have done so on Tuesday; but to our great surprise nothing was said on
the subject, and unless it is in your power to assist your brother with
five or six hundred pounds, he must entirely give up the idea.
At Nackington we met Lady Sondes' picture over the mantelpiece in the
dining-room, and the pictures of her three children in an ante-room,
besides Mr. Scott, Miss Fletcher, Mr. Toke, Mr. J. Toke, and the
archdeacon Lynch. Miss Fletcher and I were very thick, but I am the
thinnest of the two. She wore her purple muslin, which is pretty
enough, though it does not become her complexion. There are two traits
in her character which are pleasing,--namely, she admires Camilla, and
drinks no cream in her tea. If you should ever see Lucy, you may tell
her that I scolded Miss Fletcher for her negligence in writing, as she
desired me to do, but without being able to bring her to any proper
sense of shame,--that Miss Fletcher says, in her defence, that as
everybody whom Lucy knew when she was in Canterbury has now left it, she
has nothing at all to write to her about. By _everybody_, I suppose Miss
Fletcher means that a new set of officers have arrived there. But this
is a note of my own.
