Indeed, the poor people were to be pitied in one particular thing in
which they had little or no relief, and which I desire to mention with a
serious awe and reflection, which perhaps every one that reads this may
not relish; namely, that whereas death now began not, as we may say, to
hover over every one's head only, but to look into their houses and
chambers and stare in their faces. Though there might be some stupidity
and dulness of the mind (and there was so, a great deal), yet there was
a great deal of just alarm sounded into the very inmost soul, if I may
so say, of others. Many consciences were awakened; many hard hearts
melted into tears; many a penitent confession was made of crimes long
concealed. It would wound the soul of any Christian to have heard the
dying groans of many a despairing creature, and none durst come near to
comfort them. Many a robbery, many a murder, was then confessed aloud,
and nobody surviving to record the accounts of it. People might be
heard, even into the streets as we passed along, calling upon God for
mercy through Jesus Christ, and saying, 'I have been a thief, 'I have
been an adulterer', 'I have been a murderer', and the like, and none
durst stop to make the least inquiry into such things or to administer
comfort to the poor creatures that in the anguish both of soul and body
thus cried out. Some of the ministers did visit the sick at first and
for a little while, but it was not to be done. It would have been
present death to have gone into some houses. The very buriers of the
dead, who were the hardenedest creatures in town, were sometimes beaten
back and so terrified that they durst not go into houses where the whole
families were swept away together, and where the circumstances were more
particularly horrible, as some were; but this was, indeed, at the first
heat of the distemper.
Time inured them to it all, and they ventured everywhere afterwards
without hesitation, as I shall have occasion to mention at large
hereafter.
I am supposing now the plague to be begun, as I have said, and that the
magistrates began to take the condition of the people into their serious
consideration. What they did as to the regulation of the inhabitants and
of infected families, I shall speak to by itself; but as to the affair
of health, it is proper to mention it here that, having seen the foolish
humour of the people in running after quacks and mountebanks, wizards
and fortune-tellers, which they did as above, even to madness, the Lord
Mayor, a very sober and religious gentleman, appointed physicians and
surgeons for relief of the poor--I mean the diseased poor and in
particular ordered the College of Physicians to publish directions for
cheap remedies for the poor, in all the circumstances of the distemper.
This, indeed, was one of the most charitable and judicious things that
could be done at that time, for this drove the people from haunting the
doors of every disperser of bills, and from taking down blindly and
without consideration poison for physic and death instead of life.
