I had all that day (Monday) to order my preparations, and upon this
plain intelligence, I determined to lose no time, nor was it long before
I resolved what to do; for as their design was desperate, so I had
nothing but desperate remedies to provide. Having therefore settled my
measures, I called for the cockswain, and bade him man the pinnace, for
that I was to go on shore, and I appointed only the supercargo, and the
surgeon, and the French captain, to go with me.
There were no English ships in the road, but there were about five Dutch
vessels homeward-bound, waiting for more, and three outward-bound. As I
passed by one of the outward-bound East India ships, the French captain,
as we had agreed before, pretended to know the ship, and that the
commander was his old acquaintance, and asked me to give him leave to
visit him, and told me he was sure he would make us all welcome. I
seemed unwilling at first, telling him I intended to go on shore and
pay my respects to the governor, and, as was usual, to ask him leave to
buy some provisions, and that the governor would take it very ill if I
did not go. However, upon his alleging that we would not stay, and that
the Dutch captain, upon his going on board, would, he was sure, give us
a letter of recommendation to the governor, by which we should have
everything granted that we could desire, I consented to his importunity,
and we went on board.
Captain Merlotte, who spoke Dutch very well, hailed the ship, asked the
captain's name, and then asked if he was on board; they answered, Yes;
then he bade them tell him the captain of the English ship was come to
visit him; upon which, immediately their chief mate bade them man the
side, and stood at the side to receive us, and, before we could get up,
the Dutch captain came upon the quarter-deck, and with great civility
invited us into his cabin; and, while we were there, the chief mate, by
the captain's order, entertained the boat's crew with like civility.
When we were in the cabin, Captain Merlotte told the Dutch captain that
we came indeed to him in the form of a visit, but that our business was
of the greatest importance, and desired we might speak to him of it in
the hearing of none but such as he could trust. The captain told us with
the greatest open-heartedness imaginable, that though we were strangers
to him, yet we looked like honest men, and he would grant our request;
we should speak it in the hearing of none but those we could trust, for
there should be nobody by but ourselves.
We made him fully sensible that we knew how obliging that compliment
was, but begged he would admit any whom he thought worthy to be trusted
with a secret of the last importance. He then carried it as far the
other way, and told us, that then he must call in the whole ship's
company, for that there was not a man in the ship but he could trust his
life in his hands. However, upon the whole, he sent everybody out of the
cabin but us three and himself, and then desired we would speak our
minds freely.
