He planned many things to do. "I will make a hammock some day for my
bower and some vessels to use in my work," he thought.
XXV
ROBINSON AGAIN EXPLORES HIS ISLAND
When Robinson recovered his strength he had a strong desire to see
more of the island. At first he had been in constant fear of wild
animals, but now he thought he would like to see all there was to see
in the island. On the 15th of July he started out. First he went to
a brook which ran into the sea near his cave. Its water was clear and
pure; along its shore lay beautiful meadows. As he came to the upper
course of the brook the meadow gave way to forest. On the border of
the forest he found melons and grapes.
The night came on and he slept again in a tree. The next morning he
went farther and came to a clear rivulet. Here the region was
wonderfully beautiful. The flowers bloomed as in a garden, and near
the flowers stood splendid apple and orange trees. He took as much
of the fruit as he could carry and went on his way. This journey
continued three days. The grapes which he had carried he dried in the
sun and made raisins.
The 10th of September came, one year had passed on the island. He was
many hundred miles from home, alone on an island. With tears he cried
out, "Ah! what are my dear parents saying? They have no doubt long
given me up as dead. If I could only send them a message to comfort
them and let them know how much I love them!"
The day was celebrated as a holiday. He thanked God that He had given
him so many good things. Often he had lived the whole day in care and
anxiety. Now he tried to be more cheerful and to meet the troubles
of each day with courage.
But Robinson was not yet satisfied. He longed to know more of the
island and prepared himself for a greater journey. He slung his
hunting pouch over his shoulder, filled it full of food, took his bow
and arrows, stuck his stone hatchet in his belt and started on his
way. He traveled over meadows, through beautiful forests in which were
hundreds of birds. He was delighted as they sang and fluttered about.
The journey was beautiful and pleasant to Robinson. In the forests
he often saw small wild creatures, but he shot nothing. After the first
night he slept under a tree in the soft grass, for he had now no fear
of wild animals.
Along the shore he saw great groves of palms with their large nuts.
He saw, too, many goats in all parts of the island.
Now he was ready to take the shortest way home. He had not gone far
before he came into a dark forest. He became confused and wandered
about for several days. On the fourth day he came to a little pile
of stones, which he had made to mark the way as he was going out. From
this place the way was easy to find. On this trip he was gone already
two weeks.
