Among other monuments of noble men in this cathedral they show you one
that is very extraordinary, and to which there hangs a tale.  There was
in the reign of Philip and Mary a very unhappy murder committed by the
then Lord Sturton, or Stourton, a family since extinct, but well known
till within a few years in that country.
This Lord Stourton being guilty of the said murder, which also was
aggravated with very bad circumstances, could not obtain the usual grace
of the Crown (viz., to be beheaded), but Queen Mary positively ordered
that, like a common malefactor, he should die at the gallows.  After he
was hanged, his friends desiring to have him buried at Salisbury, the
bishop would not consent that he should be buried in the cathedral
unless, as a farther mark of infamy, his friends would submit to this
condition--viz., that the silken halter in which he was hanged should be
hanged up over his grave in the church as a monument of his crime; which
was accordingly done, and there it is to be seen to this day.
The putting this halter up here was not so wonderful to me as it was that
the posterity of that lord, who remained in good rank some time after,
should never prevail to have that mark of infamy taken off from the
memory of their ancestor.
There are several other monuments in this cathedral, as particularly of
two noblemen of ancient families in Scotland--one of the name of Hay, and
one of the name of Gordon; but they give us nothing of their history, so
that we must be content to say there they lie, and that is all.
The cloister, and the chapter-house adjoining to the church, are the
finest here of any I have seen in England; the latter is octagon, or
eight-square, and is 150 feet in its circumference; the roof bearing all
upon one small marble pillar in the centre, which you may shake with your
hand; and it is hardly to be imagined it can be any great support to the
roof, which makes it the more curious (it is not indeed to be matched, I
believe, in Europe).
From hence directing my course to the seaside in pursuit of my first
design--viz., of viewing the whole coast of England--I left the great
road and went down the east side of the river towards New Forest and
Lymington; and here I saw the ancient house and seat of Clarendon, the
mansion of the ancient family of Hide, ancestors of the great Earl of
Clarendon, and from whence his lordship was honoured with that title, or
the house erected into an honour in favour of his family.
But this being a large county, and full of memorable branches of
antiquity and modern curiosity, I cannot quit my observations so soon.
But being happily fixed, by the favour of a particular friend, at so
beautiful a spot of ground as this of Clarendon Park, I made several
little excursions from hence to view the northern parts of this county--a
county so fruitful of wonders that, though I do not make antiquity my
chief search, yet I must not pass it over entirely, where so much of it,
and so well worth observation, is to be found, which would look as if I
either understood not the value of the study, or expected my readers
should be satisfied with a total omission of it.
