I saw both these stars, and, I must confess, had had so much of the
common notion of such things in my head, that I was apt to look upon
them as the forerunners and warnings of God's judgments, and, especially
when the plague had followed the first, I yet saw another of the like
kind, I could not but say, God had not yet sufficiently scourged the
city.
The apprehensions of the people were likewise strangely increased by the
error of the times, in which I think the people, from what principle I
cannot imagine, were more addicted to prophecies, and astrological
conjurations, dreams, and old wives' tales, than ever they were before
or since.[46] Whether this unhappy temper was originally raised by the
follies of some people who got money by it, that is to say, by printing
predictions and prognostications, I know not. But certain it is, books
frighted them terribly, such as "Lilly's Almanack,"[47] "Gadbury's
Astrological Predictions," "Poor Robin's Almanack,"[48] and the like;
also several pretended religious books,--one entitled "Come out of Her,
my People, lest ye be Partaker of her Plagues;"[49] another called "Fair
Warning;" another, "Britain's Remembrancer;" and many such,--all, or
most part of which, foretold directly or covertly the ruin of the city.
Nay, some were so enthusiastically bold as to run about the streets with
their oral predictions, pretending they were sent to preach to the city;
and one in particular, who, like Jonah[50] to Nineveh, cried in the
streets, "Yet forty days, and London shall be destroyed." I will not be
positive whether he said "yet forty days," or "yet a few days." Another
ran about naked, except a pair of drawers about his waist, crying day
and night, like a man that Josephus[51] mentions, who cried, "Woe to
Jerusalem!" a little before the destruction of that city: so this poor
naked creature cried, "Oh, the great and the dreadful God!" and said no
more, but repeated those words continually, with a voice and countenance
full of horror, a swift pace, and nobody could ever find him to stop, or
rest, or take any sustenance, at least that ever I could hear of. I met
this poor creature several times in the streets, and would have spoke to
him, but he would not enter into speech with me, or any one else, but
kept on his dismal cries continually.
These things terrified the people to the last degree, and especially
when two or three times, as I have mentioned already, they found one or
two in the bills dead of the plague at St. Giles's.
Next to these public things were the dreams of old women; or, I should
say, the interpretation of old women upon other people's dreams; and
these put abundance of people even out of their wits. Some heard voices
warning them to be gone, for that there would be such a plague in London
so that the living would not be able to bury the dead; others saw
apparitions in the air: and I must be allowed to say of both, I hope
without breach of charity, that they heard voices that never spake, and
saw sights that never appeared. But the imagination of the people was
really turned wayward and possessed; and no wonder if they who were
poring continually at the clouds saw shapes and figures,
representations and appearances, which had nothing in them but air and
vapor. Here they told us they saw a flaming sword held in a hand, coming
out of a cloud, with a point hanging directly over the city. There they
saw hearses and coffins in the air carrying to be buried. And there
again, heaps of dead bodies lying unburied and the like, just as the
imagination of the poor terrified people furnished them with matter to
work upon.
