In this Retirement it was that I began to be very Serious: A Soldiers
Life has many Occurrences which are not very reconcileable to strict
Morality. To comprize my own Character in relation to Christianity, I
was neither a Saint nor a Devil. The Pains I felt were very Sharp, and
hindred my Rest; my Blood was heated and boiling up to a Fever, which
being agitated with daily dressing my Wounds, it requir'd a skillful
Physician and a good Regimen in the Patient, to stave off a Fit of
Sickness. My Brother prov'd an excellent Nurse, and had he not us'd a
great deal of Reason in keeping me from improper Nourishment, the Game
would quickly have been up with me. I was also waited upon several
times by a worthy Clergyman, who neglected not to give me Penitent Hints
to have regard to the main Concern; I return'd him Thanks, and gave him
to understand I would make use of him when there was more urgent
Occasion. When I began to grow a Valetudinarian, and that my Wounds
began to heel up, I had the Liberty to drink _Loraine_ Beer, which is
much celebrated in those Parts. As yet I had drank nothing but Tissans
and such like Decoctions, which being very mild upon the Palate, did not
give content to the inward dryness and thirst I felt by the loss of
Blood. But I quickly repented this Indulgence of tasting the Beer, I
took such deep Draughts that I relaps'd into a dangerous and most
violent Fever, in which I acted all the Parts of a dying Man, besides
making my Exit; I was delirious above three Days, which though it was
but a melancholly Sight in it self, yet I behav'd my self so various in
my rambling Discourse, that it occasion'd no small Diversion to such as
were present, and had no immediate concern in my Welfare. I besieg'd
Towns, rally'd scattered Forces, accepted Challenges, wandered over the
_Alpes_, and pass'd over several Seas without Ships; I was in the
Orchard at the Boyne, under the Walls of _London Derry_, and diverted
with the fine Rode to _Lions_, and what I thought I should never have in
my Head again, some amorous Ideas, though very faint one's, discover'd
themselves, and I was heard to talk of Snuff-Boxes, Periwigs, and
_Spanish_ Ladies. My Brother who heard me, and to whom I had discover'd
that Intrigue, burst out into a Laugh when he heard me name Snuff-Boxes;
for this was enough to make him believe the Passion was not dead in me,
which he horded up to rally me with.
During this Entertainment which I gave the Spectators, my Brother had
sent for the Priest, but I was then in a very improper State to settle
Accounts in Relation to the next World. However, the Gentleman
approaching my Bed, and calling upon me to hear whether I could return a
rational Answer. He bid me lift up my Heart to God, and call upon my
Redeemer. But I, as I suppose, taking him to be one of my Sergeants, bid
God--D--n him for a Rascal, why had he not been with me before? for the
Colonel had order'd a Review shou'd be made at Eleven a Clock. The
Priest shrugg'd up his Shoulders, sprinkled me with Holy Water, and
retir'd to the Window, where my Brother and the Physician were attending
my Fate. When my Delirious Fit was over, which was about an Hour
afterwards, I turn'd my Eyes towards the other Side of the Room, where I
saw three Persons leaning in the Window with their Backs towards me; and
not being entirely recover'd from my Delirious State, I fancied my self
a Prisoner at _Constantinople_, and that my Brother, the Physician, and
the Priest, were three Mutes sent to Strangle me; but in an Instant or
two I return'd to my self, and discover'd whose Hands I was in. This was
a terrible Attack, and the Enemy had made such a Breach, that I desired
to wisper a Word with the Priests, telling him I wou'd Capitulate next
Morning about Eight a Clock. Afterwards I recover'd very leisurely, and
took great Care not to be too bold with the _Lorain_ Beer. My Phician
advised me not to remove from that Place till I was perfectly
establish'd, assuring me there was not better Air in all the
_Netherlands_. I follow'd his Advice, for I cou'd not think him prompted
to give it me through Avarice, for he was so very moderate in his Fees,
that I thought my self oblig'd at our parting to make him a handsome
Present. My Brother who was a Man of Letters, and very curious in his
Enquiries, had a good opportunity during our stay here to get acquainted
with several learned Men of this University. One of the first account
was Dr. _Martin_ an _Irish_ Clergyman, who had a lively Genious and was
also a Person of great reading. In the mean time my Sister at _Paris_
began to grow impatient for her Husband, but she bore his Absence the
better when she understood how useful he had been to me during my
Sickness. However, we made bold to Trespass a little further, by taking
a turn round the Country. It was not a Journey entirely of Pleasure, for
I was oblig'd to go to _Amsterdam_, there being a stop put to the
Interest of my Mony, so I was resolved to see that Matter rectify'd. So
having obtained a Pass from the Allies, under the Quality of two
_Scotch_ Merchants we began our Journey. When I came to _Amsterdam_, I
was very much surpriz'd to understand the odd Occasion of my Money being
stop'd. It seems a Countryman, of mine who had fish'd out something of
my Concerns, and saw me fall at the Battle of _Launden_, had
Counterfeited a Deed in the Nature of a Will, which imported, that all
my Effects in _Amsterdam_ were left to him, he being my Brother, and
demanding it as his due. The Banker had the Deed perus'd by several
Persons, it had a great appearance of being Authentick, and my Hand was
so inimitably clap'd to it, that when compared with what was certainly
known not to be Counterfeit, 'twas impossible to discover the
Difference. Now the Banker desired this pretended Brother of mine to
have Patience till he had an account from _Paris_ whether or no I was
dead, and the general Report being that I was kill'd at _Launden_, this
was the occasion that the Money was neither paid to my Correspondent nor
to my Sham Brother. This Point once clear'd, I was resolv'd to find out
the Person who had personated my Brother, that I might bring him to
condign Punishment, as also to clear a Suspicion I had, that my Servant
had a Hand in it, for otherwise I thought it impossible one that was a
Stranger should know whose Hands my Money was in. In the first place I
cunningly interrogated my Servant at a distance, and found enough by his
Countenance that he was not entirely Innocent, however, not being able
to prove it upon him, I in the next place made a diligent Search after
my Sham-Brother; for he had told the Banker at his last Visit that he
wou'd return again in Seven or Eight Days, and Six of 'em were now
expired. The Gentleman was as good as his World. He came to the Banker
with a good Assurance, and demanded both Principal and Interest. I was
then at my Lodging, but being sent for, I was strangely surpris'd to see
the Clerk of my Company, who was also a Sergeant, metamorphos'd into my
Brother. He shrunk two Inches lower at the Sight of me; but dissembling
the matter, I am glad to see thee alive Sergeant said I, for I took it
for granted you were kill'd at the Battle of _Launden_; and I, reply'd
the impudent Villain, thought you had, otherwise I had not been here:
but if you please, noble Captain, to walk into the next Tavern and give
me leave to wait upon you, I will discover to you the occasion of my
coming to _Amsterdam_. My Fears as to my Money being now all over, I
comply'd with the Rascal, and went along with him. But he dress'd up
such a Narrative in favour of his good Intention, and strengthen'd it
with such plausible Circumstances, That he and my Servant, whom he
confess'd to be one of the Party, had no other Intention but to get the
Money out of the Banker's Hands for the Use of my Relations; for that
they had Reason to suspect I had made no Will, and so no body wou'd have
a Right to demand the Money. Now though this Stratagem was very probably
all a Fiction, yet it wrought so much with me, that I did not Prosecute
either of 'em; for as I was acquainted with both their Friends in
_Scotland_, so I had some regard for them, and dismissed them to go home
or whither they pleas'd, not thinking it safe to entertain Persons who
had been involved in such mysterious Practices.
