In the Year 1676, the Prince of _Orange_ having, in concert with the
_Spaniards_, resolv'd upon the important Siege of _Maestrich_ (the only
Town in the _Dutch_ Provinces, then remaining in the Hands of the
_French_) it was accordingly invested about the middle of _June_, with
an Army of twenty Thousand Men, under the Command of his Highness Prince
_Waldeck_, with the grand Army covering the Siege. It was some Time
before the heavy Cannon, which we expected up the _Maes_, from
_Holland_, arrived; which gave Occasion to a Piece of Raillery of
Monsieur _Calvo_, the Governor, which was as handsomely repartec'd. That
Governor, by a Messenger, intimating his Sorrow to find, we had pawn'd
our Cannon for Ammunition Bread. Answer was made, That in a few Days we
hoped to give him a Taste of the Loaves, which he should find would be
sent him into the Town in extraordinary plenty. I remember another Piece
of Raillery, which pass'd some Days after between the _Rhingrave_ and
the same _Calvo_. The former sending Word, that he hoped within three
Weeks to salute that Governor's Mistress within the Place. _Calvo_
reply'd, He'd give him leave to kiss her all over, if he kiss'd her any
where in three Months.
But our long expected Artillery being at last arriv'd, all this Jest and
Merriment was soon converted into earnest. Our Trenches were immediately
open'd towards the _Dauphin_ Bastion, against which were planted many
Cannon, in order to make a Breach; my self as a Probationer being twice
put upon the forlorn Hope to facilitate that difficult Piece of Service.
Nor was it long before such a Breach was effected, as was esteem'd
practicable, and therefore very soon after it was ordered to be
attack'd.
The Disposition for the Attack was thus ordered; two Serjeants with
twenty Grenadiers, a Captain with fifty Men, my self one of the Number;
then a Party carrying Wool Sacks, and after them two Captains with one
Hundred Men more; the Soldiers in the Trenches to be ready to sustain
them, as Occasion should require.
The Signal being given, we left our Trenches accordingly, having about
one Hundred Yards to run, before we could reach the Breach, which we
mounted with some Difficulty and Loss; all our Batteries firing at the
same instant to keep our Action in countenance, and favour our Design.
When we were in Possession of the Bastion, the Enemy fir'd most
furiously upon us with their small Cannon through a thin brick Wall, by
which, and their hand Grenadoes, we lost more Men than we did in the
Attack it self.
But well had it been had our ill Fortune stopp'd there; for as if
Disaster must needs be the Concomitant of Success, we soon lost what we
had thus gotten, by a small, but very odd Accident. Not being furnished
with such Scoopes as our Enemies made use of, in tossing their hand
Grenadoes some distance off, one of our own Soldiers aiming to throw one
over the Wall into the Counterscarp among the Enemy, it so happen'd that
he unfortunately miss'd his Aim, and the Grenade fell down again on our
side the Wall, very near the Person who fir'd it. He starting back to
save himself, and some others who saw it fall, doing the like, those who
knew nothing of the Matter fell into a sudden Confusion, and imagining
some greater danger than there really was, every body was struck with a
panick Fear, and endeavour'd to be the first who should quit the
Bastion, and secure himself by a real Shame from an imaginary Evil. Thus
was a Bastion, that had been gloriously gain'd, inadvertently deserted;
and that too, with the Loss of almost as many Men in the Retreat, as had
been slain in the Onset, and the Enemy most triumphantly again took
Possession of it.
