But to return, to the happy Regions of the Lunar Continent, I was no
sooner Landed there, and had lookt about me, but I was surpriz'd with
the strange Alteration of the Climate and Country; and particularly
a strange Salubrity and Fragrancy in the Air, which I felt so
Nourishing, so Pleasant and Delightful, that tho' I could perceive
some small Respiration, it was hardly discernable, and the least
requisite for Life, supplied so long that the Bellows of Nature were
hardly imployed.
But as I shall take occasion to consider this in a Critical
Examination into the Nature, Uses and Advantages of Good Lungs, of
which by it self, so I think fit to confine my present Observations
to things more particularly concerning the Eye-sight.
I was, you may be sure, not a little surprized, when being upon an
Eminence I found my self capable by common Observation, to see and
distinguish things at the distance of 100 Miles and more, and seeking
some Information on this point, I was acquainted by the People, that
there was a certain grave Philosopher hard by, that could give me a
very good Account of things.
It is not worth while to tell you this Man's Lunar Name, of whether
he had a Name, or no; 'tis plain, 'twas a Man in the Moon; but all
the Conference I had with him was very strange: At my first coming to
him, he askt me if I came from the World in the Moon? I told him, no:
At which he began to be angry, told me I Ly'd, he knew whence I came
as well as I did; for he saw me all the way. I told him, I came to
the World in the Moon, and began to be as surly as he. It was a long
time before we could agree about it, he would have it, that I came
down from the Moon; and I, that I came up to the Moon: From this,
we came to Explications, Demonstrations, Spheres, Globes, Regions,
Atmospheres, and a Thousand odd Diagrams, to make the thing out to
one another. I insisted on my part, as that my Experiment qualified
me to know, and challeng'd him to go back with me to prove it. He,
like a true Philosopher, raised a Thousand Scruples, Conjectures, and
Spherical Problems, to Confront me; and as for Demonstrations, he
call'd 'em Fancies of my own. Thus we differ'd a great many ways;
both of us were certain, and both uncertain; both right, and yet
both directly contrary; how to reconcile this Jangle was very hard,
till at last this Demonstration happen'd, the Moon as he call'd it,
turning her blind-side upon us three Days after the Change, by which,
with the help of his extraordinary Glasses, I that knew the Country,
perceived that side the Sun lookt upon was all Moon, and the other
was all world; and either I fancy'd I saw or else really saw all the
lofty Towers of the Immense Cities of China: Upon this, and a little
more Debate, we came to this Conclusion, and there the Old Man and I
agreed, That they were both Moons and both Worlds, this a Moon to
that, and that a Moon to this, like the Sun between two
Looking-Glasses, and shone upon one another by Reflection, according
to the oblique or direct Position of each other.
