However, as it were, tired with that kind of work, we sat down, and
there he talked with me a great while; he said he was charmed with me,
and that he could not rest night or day till he had told me how he was
in love with me, and, if I was able to love him again, and would make
him happy, I should be the saving of his life, and many such fine
things.  I said little to him again, but easily discovered that I was a
fool, and that I did not in the least perceive what he meant.
Then he walked about the room, and taking me by the hand, I walked with
him; and by and by, taking his advantage, he threw me down upon the
bed, and kissed me there most violently; but, to give him his due,
offered no manner of rudeness to me, only kissed a great while.  After
this he thought he had heard somebody come upstairs, so got off from
the bed, lifted me up, professing a great deal of love for me, but told
me it was all an honest affection, and that he meant no ill to me; and
with that he put five guineas into my hand, and went away downstairs.
I was more confounded with the money than I was before with the love,
and began to be so elevated that I scarce knew the ground I stood on.
I am the more particular in this part, that if my story comes to be
read by any innocent young body, they may learn from it to guard
themselves against the mischiefs which attend an early knowledge of
their own beauty.  If a young woman once thinks herself handsome, she
never doubts the truth of any man that tells her he is in love with
her; for if she believes herself charming enough to captivate him, 'tis
natural to expect the effects of it.
This young gentleman had fired his inclination as much as he had my
vanity, and, as if he had found that he had an opportunity and was
sorry he did not take hold of it, he comes up again in half an hour or
thereabouts, and falls to work with me again as before, only with a
little less introduction.
And first, when he entered the room, he turned about and shut the door.
'Mrs. Betty,' said he, 'I fancied before somebody was coming upstairs,
but it was not so; however,' adds he, 'if they find me in the room with
you, they shan't catch me a-kissing of you.' I told him I did not know
who should be coming upstairs, for I believed there was nobody in the
house but the cook and the other maid, and they never came up those
stairs.  'Well, my dear,' says he, ''tis good to be sure, however'; and
so he sits down, and we began to talk.  And now, though I was still all
on fire with his first visit, and said little, he did as it were put
words in my mouth, telling me how passionately he loved me, and that
though he could not mention such a thing till he came to this estate,
yet he was resolved to make me happy then, and himself too; that is to
say, to marry me, and abundance of such fine things, which I, poor
fool, did not understand the drift of, but acted as if there was no
such thing as any kind of love but that which tended to matrimony; and
if he had spoke of that, I had no room, as well as no power, to have
said no; but we were not come that length yet.
