My colour came and went, at the sight of the purse and with the fire of
his proposal together, so that I could not say a word, and he easily
perceived it; so putting the purse into my bosom, I made no more
resistance to him, but let him do just what he pleased, and as often as
he pleased; and thus I finished my own destruction at once, for from
this day, being forsaken of my virtue and my modesty, I had nothing of
value left to recommend me, either to God's blessing or man's
assistance.
But things did not end here.  I went back to the town, did the business
he publicly directed me to, and was at home before anybody thought me
long.  As for my gentleman, he stayed out, as he told me he would, till
late at night, and there was not the least suspicion in the family
either on his account or on mine.
We had, after this, frequent opportunities to repeat our crime
--chiefly by his contrivance--especially at home, when his mother and
the young ladies went abroad a-visiting, which he watched so narrowly
as never to miss; knowing always beforehand when they went out, and
then failed not to catch me all alone, and securely enough; so that we
took our fill of our wicked pleasure for near half a year; and yet,
which was the most to my satisfaction, I was not with child.
But before this half-year was expired, his younger brother, of whom I
have made some mention in the beginning of the story, falls to work
with me; and he, finding me alone in the garden one evening, begins a
story of the same kind to me, made good honest professions of being in
love with me, and in short, proposes fairly and honourably to marry me,
and that before he made any other offer to me at all.
I was now confounded, and driven to such an extremity as the like was
never known; at least not to me.  I resisted the proposal with
obstinacy; and now I began to arm myself with arguments.  I laid before
him the inequality of the match; the treatment I should meet with in
the family; the ingratitude it would be to his good father and mother,
who had taken me into their house upon such generous principles, and
when I was in such a low condition; and, in short, I said everything to
dissuade him from his design that I could imagine, except telling him
the truth, which would indeed have put an end to it all, but that I
durst not think of mentioning.
But here happened a circumstance that I did not expect indeed, which
put me to my shifts; for this young gentleman, as he was plain and
honest, so he pretended to nothing with me but what was so too; and,
knowing his own innocence, he was not so careful to make his having a
kindness for Mrs. Betty a secret in the house, as his brother was.  And
though he did not let them know that he had talked to me about it, yet
he said enough to let his sisters perceive he loved me, and his mother
saw it too, which, though they took no notice of it to me, yet they did
to him, an immediately I found their carriage to me altered, more than
ever before.
