He pacified me as well as he could with this, but I found he was very
thoughtful, and that though he was very kind to me and  kissed me a
thousand times, and more I believe, and gave me money too, yet he
offered no more all the while we were together, which was above two
hours, and which I much wondered at indeed at that time, considering
how it used to be, and what opportunity we had.
His brother did not come from London for five or six days, and it was
two days more before he got an opportunity to talk with him; but then
getting him by himself he began to talk very close to him about it, and
the same evening got an opportunity (for we had a long conference
together) to repeat all their discourse to me, which, as near as I can
remember, was to the purpose following.  He told him he heard strange
news of him since he went, viz. that he made love to Mrs. Betty.
'Well, says his brother a little angrily, 'and so I do.  And what then?
What has anybody to do with that?'  'Nay,' says his brother, 'don't be
angry, Robin; I don't pretend to have anything to do with it; nor do I
pretend to be angry with you about it.  But I find they do concern
themselves about it, and that they have used the poor girl ill about
it, which I should take as done to myself.'  'Whom do you mean by
THEY?' says Robin.  'I mean my mother and the girls,' says the elder
brother.  'But hark ye,' says his brother, 'are you in earnest?  Do you
really love this girl?  You may be free with me, you know.'  'Why,
then,' says Robin, 'I will be free with you; I do love her above all
the women in the world, and I will have her, let them say and do what
they will.  I believe the girl will not deny me.'
It struck me to the heart when he told me this, for though it was most
rational to think I would not deny him, yet I knew in my own conscience
I must deny him, and I saw my ruin in my being obliged to do so; but I
knew it was my business to talk otherwise then, so I interrupted him in
his story thus.
'Ay!' said I, 'does he think I cannot deny him?  But he shall find I
can deny him, for all that.'
'Well, my dear,' says he, 'but let me give you the whole story as it
went on between us, and then say what you will.'
Then he went on and told me that he replied thus:  'But, brother, you
know she has nothing, and you may have several ladies with good
fortunes.'
''Tis no matter for that,' said Robin; 'I love the girl, and I will
never please my pocket in marrying, and not please my fancy.' 'And so,
my dear,' adds he, 'there is no opposing him.'
