Her younger brother, who was by, cried, 'Hold, sister, you run too
fast; I am an exception to your rule.  I assure you, if I find a woman
so accomplished as you talk of, I say, I assure you, I would not
trouble myself about the money.'
'Oh,' says the sister, 'but you will take care not to fancy one, then,
without the money.'
'You don't know that neither,' says the brother.
'But why, sister,' says the elder brother, 'why do you exclaim so at
the men for aiming so much at the fortune?  You are none of them that
want a fortune, whatever else you want.'
'I understand you, brother,' replies the lady very smartly; 'you
suppose I have the money, and want the beauty; but as times go now, the
first will do without the last, so I have the better of my neighbours.'
'Well,' says the younger brother, 'but your neighbours, as you call
them, may be even with you, for beauty will steal a husband sometimes
in spite of money, and when the maid chances to be handsomer than the
mistress, she oftentimes makes as good a market, and rides in a coach
before her.'
I thought it was time for me to withdraw and leave them, and I did so,
but not so far but that I heard all their discourse, in which I heard
abundance of the fine things said of myself, which served to prompt my
vanity, but, as I soon found, was not the way to increase my interest
in the family, for the sister and the younger brother fell grievously
out about it; and as he said some very disobliging things to her upon
my account, so I could easily see that she resented them by her future
conduct to me, which indeed was very unjust to me, for I had never had
the least thought of what she suspected as to her younger brother;
indeed, the elder brother, in his distant, remote way, had said a great
many things as in jest, which I had the folly to believe were in
earnest, or to flatter myself with the hopes of what I ought to have
supposed he never intended, and perhaps never thought of.
It happened one day that he came running upstairs, towards the room
where his sisters used to sit and work, as he often used to do; and
calling to them before he came in, as was his way too, I, being there
alone, stepped to the door, and said, 'Sir, the ladies are not here,
they are walked down the garden.' As I stepped forward to say this,
towards the door, he was just got to the door, and clasping me in his
arms, as if it had been by chance, 'Oh, Mrs. Betty,' says he, 'are you
here?  That's better still; I want to speak with you more than I do
with them'; and then, having me in his arms, he kissed me three or four
times.
