I heard him, and partly understood what he meant, though not what he
said, and began then to be in a terrible fright; for I knew not where to
get a bit of bread; when the pilot of the ship, an old seaman, seeing me
look very dull, came to me, and speaking broken English to me, told me
I must be gone. "Whither must I go?" said I. "Where you will," said he,
"home to your own country, if you will." "How must I go thither?" said
I. "Why, have you no friend?" said he. "No," said I, "not in the world,
but that dog," pointing to the ship's dog (who, having stolen a piece
of meat just before, had brought it close by me, and I had taken it
from him, and ate it), "for he has been a good friend, and brought me my
dinner."
"Well, well," says he, "you must have your dinner. Will you go with me?"
"Yes," says I, "with all my heart." In short, the old pilot took me home
with him, and used me tolerably well, though I fared hard enough; and I
lived with him about two years, during which time he was soliciting his
business, and at length got to be master or pilot under Don Garcia de
Pimentesia de Carravallas, captain of a Portuguese galleon or carrack,
which was bound to Goa, in the East Indies; and immediately having
gotten his commission, put me on board to look after his cabin, in
which he had stored himself with abundance of liquors, succades, sugar,
spices, and other things, for his accommodation in the voyage, and laid
in afterwards a considerable quantity of European goods, fine lace and
linen; and also baize, woollen cloth, stuffs, &c., under the pretence of
his clothes.
I was too young in the trade to keep any journal of this voyage, though
my master, who was, for a Portuguese, a pretty good artist, prompted me
to it; but my not understanding the language was one hindrance; at least
it served me for an excuse. However, after some time, I began to look
into his charts and books; and, as I could write a tolerable hand,
understood some Latin, and began to have a little smattering of
the Portuguese tongue, so I began to get a superficial knowledge of
navigation, but not such as was likely to be sufficient to carry me
through a life of adventure, as mine was to be. In short, I learned
several material things in this voyage among the Portuguese; I learned
particularly to be an arrant thief and a bad sailor; and I think I may
say they are the best masters for teaching both these of any nation in
the world.
We made our way for the East Indies, by the coast of Brazil; not that it
is in the course of sailing the way thither, but our captain, either
on his own account, or by the direction of the merchants, went thither
first, where at All Saints' Bay, or, as they call it in Portugal, the
Rio de Todos los Santos, we delivered near a hundred tons of goods, and
took in a considerable quantity of gold, with some chests of sugar, and
seventy or eighty great rolls of tobacco, every roll weighing at least a
hundredweight.
