But what does all human pains and industry avail, if the blessing of God
does not crown our labours? Or who can stand before the Almighty, when
he stretcheth forth his arm? For one time as I was at the entrance of my
cave, there happened such a dreadful earthquake, that not only the roof
of the cave came rumbling about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the same time. This put me in great amazement; and running
to the ladder, and getting over the wall, I then plainly knew it was an
earthquake, the place I stood on sustaining three terrible shocks in
less than three minutes. But judge of my terror when I saw the top of a
great rock roll into the sea; I then expected the island would be
swallowed up every moment: And what made the scene still more dreadful,
was to see the sea thrown into the most violent agitations and disorders
by this tremendous accident.
For my part I stood like a criminal at the place of execution ready to
expire. At the moving of the earth, I was, as it were, sea-sick; and
very much afraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and habitation,
should overwhelm it and myself in a lasting tomb.
When the third dreadful shock had spent itself, my spirits began to
revive; yet still I would not venture to ascend the ladder, but
continued fitting, not knowing what I should do. So little grace had I
then, as only to say _Lord have mercy upon me!_ and no sooner was the
earthquake over, but that pathetic prayer left me.
It was not long after, when a horrible tempest arose, at the same time
attended with a huricane of wind. The sea seemed mountains high, and the
waves rolled so impetously, that nothing could be perceived but froth
and foam. Three hours did this storm continue, and in so violent a
manner, as to tear the very trees up by the roots, which was succeeded
by abundance of rain. When the tempest was over I went to my tent: but
the rain coming on in a furious manner, I was obliged to take shelter in
the cave, where I was forced to cut a channel through my fortification
to let the water out. It continued raining all that night, and some time
the next day. These accidents made me resolve, as soon as the weather
cleared up, to build me a little hut in some open place, walled round to
defend me from wild creatures and savages; not doubting but at the next
earthquake, the mountain would fall upon my habitation and me, and
swallow up all in its bowels.
_April_ 16--20. These days I spent in contriving how and in what manner
I should fix my place of abode. All this while I was under the most
dreadful apprehensions. When I looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. I had several resolutions whether I should
move or not; but at length resolved to stay where I was, till I found
out a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
