Amy and she had concerted this between them, and it was well enough
contrived that they did so. When she came into the house, the mistress
was fuming, and raging like one distracted, and called the maid all the
foolish jades and sluts that she could think of, and that she would take
the children and turn them all out into the streets. The good poor
woman, seeing her in such a passion, turned about as if she would be
gone again, and said, "Madam, I'll come again another time, I see you
are engaged." "No, no, Mrs. ----," says the mistress, "I am not much
engaged, sit down; this senseless creature here has brought in my fool
of a brother's whole house of children upon me, and tells me that a
wench brought them to the door and thrust them in, and bade her carry
them to me; but it shall be no disturbance to me, for I have ordered
them to be set in the street without the door, and so let the
churchwardens take care of them, or else make this dull jade carry 'em
back to ---- again, and let her that brought them into the world look
after them if she will; what does she send her brats to me for?"
"The last indeed had been the best of the two," says the poor woman, "if
it had been to be done; and that brings me to tell you my errand, and
the occasion of my coming, for I came on purpose about this very
business, and to have prevented this being put upon you if I could, but
I see I am come too late."
"How do you mean too late?" says the mistress. "What! have you been
concerned in this affair, then? What! have you helped bring this family
slur upon us?" "I hope you do not think such a thing of me, madam," says
the poor woman; "but I went this morning to ----, to see my old mistress
and benefactor, for she had been very kind to me, and when I came to the
door I found all fast locked and bolted, and the house looking as if
nobody was at home.
"I knocked at the door, but nobody came, till at last some of the
neighbours' servants called to me and said, 'There's nobody lives there,
mistress; what do you knock for?' I seemed surprised at that. 'What,
nobody lives there!' said I; 'what d'ye mean? Does not Mrs. ---- live
there?' The answer was, 'No, she is gone;' at which I parleyed with one
of them, and asked her what was the matter. 'Matter!' says she, 'why, it
is matter enough: the poor gentlewoman has lived there all alone, and
without anything to subsist her a long time, and this morning the
landlord turned her out of doors.'
"'Out of doors!' says I; 'what! with all her children? Poor lambs, what
is become of them?' 'Why, truly, nothing worse,' said they, 'can come to
them than staying here, for they were almost starved with hunger; so the
neighbours, seeing the poor lady in such distress, for she stood crying
and wringing her hands over her children like one distracted, sent for
the churchwardens to take care of the children; and they, when they
came, took the youngest, which was born in this parish, and have got it
a very good nurse, and taken care of it; but as for the other four, they
had sent them away to some of their father's relations, and who were
very substantial people, and who, besides that, lived in the parish
where they were born.'
