Gavrila Ardalionovitch listened attentively, and gazed at the prince
with great curiosity. At last he motioned the man aside and stepped
hurriedly towards the prince.
"Are you Prince Muishkin?" he asked, with the greatest courtesy and
amiability.
He was a remarkably handsome young fellow of some twenty-eight summers,
fair and of middle height; he wore a small beard, and his face was most
intelligent. Yet his smile, in spite of its sweetness, was a little
thin, if I may so call it, and showed his teeth too evenly; his
gaze though decidedly good-humoured and ingenuous, was a trifle too
inquisitive and intent to be altogether agreeable.
"Probably when he is alone he looks quite different, and hardly smiles
at all!" thought the prince.
He explained about himself in a few words, very much the same as he had
told the footman and Rogojin beforehand.
Gavrila Ardalionovitch meanwhile seemed to be trying to recall
something.
"Was it not you, then, who sent a letter a year or less ago--from
Switzerland, I think it was--to Elizabetha Prokofievna (Mrs. Epanchin)?"
"It was."
"Oh, then, of course they will remember who you are. You wish to see
the general? I'll tell him at once--he will be free in a minute; but
you--you had better wait in the ante-chamber,--hadn't you? Why is he
here?" he added, severely, to the man.
"I tell you, sir, he wished it himself!"
At this moment the study door opened, and a military man, with a
portfolio under his arm, came out talking loudly, and after bidding
good-bye to someone inside, took his departure.
"You there, Gania?" cried a voice from the study, "come in here, will
you?"
Gavrila Ardalionovitch nodded to the prince and entered the room
hastily.
A couple of minutes later the door opened again and the affable voice of
Gania cried:
"Come in please, prince!"
III.
General Ivan Fedorovitch Epanchin was standing in the middle of the
room, and gazed with great curiosity at the prince as he entered. He
even advanced a couple of steps to meet him.
The prince came forward and introduced himself.
"Quite so," replied the general, "and what can I do for you?"
"Oh, I have no special business; my principal object was to make your
acquaintance. I should not like to disturb you. I do not know your times
and arrangements here, you see, but I have only just arrived. I came
straight from the station. I am come direct from Switzerland."
The general very nearly smiled, but thought better of it and kept his
smile back. Then he reflected, blinked his eyes, stared at his guest
once more from head to foot; then abruptly motioned him to a chair, sat
down himself, and waited with some impatience for the prince to speak.
Gania stood at his table in the far corner of the room, turning over
papers.
"I have not much time for making acquaintances, as a rule," said the
general, "but as, of course, you have your object in coming, I--"
