"With pleasure! In fact, it is very necessary. I like your readiness,
prince; in fact, I must say--I--I--like you very well, altogether," said
the general.
"What delightful writing materials you have here, such a lot of pencils
and things, and what beautiful paper! It's a charming room altogether.
I know that picture, it's a Swiss view. I'm sure the artist painted it
from nature, and that I have seen the very place--"
"Quite likely, though I bought it here. Gania, give the prince some
paper. Here are pens and paper; now then, take this table. What's
this?" the general continued to Gania, who had that moment taken a large
photograph out of his portfolio, and shown it to his senior. "Halloa!
Nastasia Philipovna! Did she send it you herself? Herself?" he inquired,
with much curiosity and great animation.
"She gave it me just now, when I called in to congratulate her. I asked
her for it long ago. I don't know whether she meant it for a hint that
I had come empty-handed, without a present for her birthday, or what,"
added Gania, with an unpleasant smile.
"Oh, nonsense, nonsense," said the general, with decision. "What
extraordinary ideas you have, Gania! As if she would hint; that's
not her way at all. Besides, what could _you_ give her, without having
thousands at your disposal? You might have given her your portrait,
however. Has she ever asked you for it?"
"No, not yet. Very likely she never will. I suppose you haven't
forgotten about tonight, have you, Ivan Fedorovitch? You were one of
those specially invited, you know."
"Oh no, I remember all right, and I shall go, of course. I should think
so! She's twenty-five years old today! And, you know, Gania, you must
be ready for great things; she has promised both myself and Afanasy
Ivanovitch that she will give a decided answer tonight, yes or no. So be
prepared!"
Gania suddenly became so ill at ease that his face grew paler than ever.
"Are you sure she said that?" he asked, and his voice seemed to quiver
as he spoke.
"Yes, she promised. We both worried her so that she gave in; but she
wished us to tell you nothing about it until the day."
The general watched Gania's confusion intently, and clearly did not like
it.
"Remember, Ivan Fedorovitch," said Gania, in great agitation, "that I
was to be free too, until her decision; and that even then I was to have
my 'yes or no' free."
"Why, don't you, aren't you--" began the general, in alarm.
"Oh, don't misunderstand--"
"But, my dear fellow, what are you doing, what do you mean?"
"Oh, I'm not rejecting her. I may have expressed myself badly, but I
didn't mean that."
"Reject her! I should think not!" said the general with annoyance, and
apparently not in the least anxious to conceal it. "Why, my dear
fellow, it's not a question of your rejecting her, it is whether you are
prepared to receive her consent joyfully, and with proper satisfaction.
How are things going on at home?"
