Of the convicts--with the exception of a few who enjoyed childish
gaiety, and who by that alone drew upon themselves general contempt--all
the convicts were morose, envious, frightfully vain, presumptuous,
susceptible, and excessively ceremonious. To be astonished at nothing
was in their eyes the first and indispensable quality. Accordingly,
their first aim was to bear themselves with dignity. But often the most
composed demeanour gave way with the rapidity of lightning. With the
basest humility some, however, possessed genuine strength; these were
naturally all sincere. But strangely enough, they were for the most part
excessively and morbidly vain. Vanity was always their salient quality.
The majority of the prisoners were depraved and perverted, so that
calumnies and scandal rained amongst them like hail. Our life was a
constant hell, a perpetual damnation; but no one would have dared to
raise a voice against the internal regulations of the prison, or against
established usages. Accordingly, willingly or unwillingly, they had to
be submitted to. Certain indomitable characters yielded with difficulty,
but they yielded all the same. Prisoners who when at liberty had gone
beyond all measure, who, urged by their over-excited vanity, had
committed frightful crimes unconsciously, as if in a delirium, and had
been the terror of entire towns, were put down in a very short time by
the system of our prison. The "new man," when he began to reconnoitre,
soon found that he could astonish no one, and insensibly he submitted,
took the general tone, and assumed a sort of personal dignity which
almost every convict maintained, just as if the denomination of convict
had been a title of honour. Not the least sign of shame or of
repentance, but a kind of external submission which seemed to have been
reasoned out as the line of conduct to be pursued. "We are lost men,"
they said to themselves. "We were unable to live in liberty; we must now
go to Green Street."[2]
"You would not obey your father and mother; you will now obey thongs of
leather." "The man who would not sow must now break stones."
These things were said, and repeated in the way of morality, as
sentences and proverbs, but without any one taking them seriously. They
were but words in the air. There was not one man among them who admitted
his iniquity. Let a stranger not a convict endeavour to reproach him
with his crime, and the insults directed against him would be endless.
And how refined are convicts in the matter of insults! They insult
delicately, like artists; insult with the most delicate science. They
endeavour not so much to offend by the expression as by the meaning, the
spirit of an envenomed phrase. Their incessant quarrels developed
greatly this special art.
As they only worked under the threat of an immense stick, they were idle
and depraved. Those who were not already corrupt when they arrived at
the convict establishment, became perverted very soon. Brought together
in spite of themselves, they were perfect strangers to one another. "The
devil has worn out three pairs of sandals before he got us together,"
they would say. Intrigues, calumnies, scandal of all kinds, envy, and
hatred reigned above everything else. In this life of sloth, no ordinary
spiteful tongue could make head against these murderers, with insults
constantly in their mouths.
