"Those men of yours never loved the people, they didn't suffer for them,
and didn't sacrifice anything for them, though they may have amused
themselves by imagining it!" he growled sullenly, looking down, and
moving impatiently in his chair.
"They didn't love the people!" yelled Stepan Trofimovitch. "Oh, how they
loved Russia!"
"Neither Russia nor the people!" Shatov yelled too, with flashing eyes.
"You can't love what you don't know and they had no conception of the
Russian people. All of them peered at the Russian people through their
fingers, and you do too; Byelinsky especially: from that very letter to
Gogol one can see it. Byelinsky, like the Inquisitive Man in Krylov's
fable, did not notice the elephant in the museum of curiosities, but
concentrated his whole attention on the French Socialist beetles; he did
not get beyond them. And yet perhaps he was cleverer than any of you.
You've not only overlooked the people, you've taken up an attitude of
disgusting contempt for them, if only because you could not imagine any
but the French people, the Parisians indeed, and were ashamed that the
Russians were not like them. That's the naked truth. And he who has
no people has no God. You may be sure that all who cease to understand
their own people and lose their connection with them at once lose to
the same extent the faith of their fathers, and become atheistic or
indifferent. I'm speaking the truth! This is a fact which will be
realised. That's why all of you and all of us now are either beastly
atheists or careless, dissolute imbeciles, and nothing more. And you
too, Stepan Trofimovitch, I don't make an exception of you at all! In
fact, it is on your account I am speaking, let me tell you that!"
As a rule, after uttering such monologues (which happened to him pretty
frequently) Shatov snatched up his cap and rushed to the door, in the
full conviction that everything was now over, and that he had cut short
all friendly relations with Stepan Trofimovitch forever. But the latter
always succeeded in stopping him in time.
"Hadn't we better make it up, Shatov, after all these endearments," he
would say, benignly holding out his hand to him from his arm-chair.
Shatov, clumsy and bashful, disliked sentimentality. Externally he was
rough, but inwardly, I believe, he had great delicacy. Although he often
went too far, he was the first to suffer for it. Muttering something
between his teeth in response to Stepan Trofimovitch's appeal, and
shuffling with his feet like a bear, he gave a sudden and unexpected
smile, put down his cap, and sat down in the same chair as before, with
his eyes stubbornly fixed on the ground. Wine was, of course, brought
in, and Stepan Trofimovitch proposed some suitable toast, for instance
the memory of some leading man of the past.
CHAPTER II. PRINCE HARRY. MATCHMAKING.
THERE WAS ANOTHER being in the world to whom Varvara Petrovna was as
much attached as she was to Stepan Trofimovitch, her only son, Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch Stavrogin. It was to undertake his education that Stepan
Trofimovitch had been engaged. The boy was at that time eight years old,
and his frivolous father, General Stavrogin, was already living apart
from Varvara Petrovna, so that the child grew up entirely in his
mother's care. To do Stepan Trofimovitch justice, he knew how to win his
pupil's heart. The whole secret of this lay in the fact that he was a
child himself. I was not there in those days, and he continually felt
the want of a real friend. He did not hesitate to make a friend of this
little creature as soon as he had grown a little older. It somehow came
to pass quite naturally that there seemed to be no discrepancy of age
between them. More than once he awaked his ten- or eleven-year-old
friend at night, simply to pour out his wounded feelings and weep before
him, or to tell him some family secret, without realising that this was
an outrageous proceeding. They threw themselves into each other's arms
and wept. The boy knew that his mother loved him very much, but I doubt
whether he cared much for her. She talked little to him and did not
often interfere with him, but he was always morbidly conscious of her
intent, searching eyes fixed upon him. Yet the mother confided his whole
instruction and moral education to Stepan Trofimovitch. At that time her
faith in him was unshaken. One can't help believing that the tutor had
rather a bad influence on his pupil's nerves. When at sixteen he was
taken to a lyceum he was fragile-looking and pale, strangely quiet and
dreamy. (Later on he was distinguished by great physical strength.)
One must assume too that the friends went on weeping at night, throwing
themselves in each other's arms, though their tears were not always due
to domestic difficulties. Stepan Trofimovitch succeeded in reaching
the deepest chords in his pupil's heart, and had aroused in him a vague
sensation of that eternal, sacred yearning which some elect souls can
never give up for cheap gratification when once they have tasted and
known it. (There are some connoisseurs who prize this yearning more than
the most complete satisfaction of it, if such were possible.) But in any
case it was just as well that the pupil and the preceptor were, though
none too soon, parted.
