Varvara Petrovna read this first letter greedily, and underlining in
pencil the exclamation: "Where are they both?" numbered it and put it
away in a drawer. He had, of course, referred to his two deceased wives.
The second letter she received from Berlin was in a different strain:
"I am working twelve hours out of the twenty-four." ("Eleven would be
enough," muttered Varvara Petrovna.) "I'm rummaging in the libraries,
collating, copying, rushing about. I've visited the professors. I have
renewed my acquaintance with the delightful Dundasov family. What a
charming creature Lizaveta Nikolaevna is even now! She sends you her
greetings. Her young husband and three nephews are all in Berlin. I
sit up talking till daybreak with the young people and we have almost
Athenian evenings, Athenian, I mean, only in their intellectual subtlety
and refinement. Everything is in noble style; a great deal of music,
Spanish airs, dreams of the regeneration of all humanity, ideas
of eternal beauty, of the Sistine Madonna, light interspersed with
darkness, but there are spots even on the sun! Oh, my friend, my noble,
faithful friend! In heart I am with you and am yours; with you alone,
always, _en tout pays_, even in _le pays de Makar et de ses veaux_, of
which we often used to talk in agitation in Petersburg, do you remember,
before we came away. I think of it with a smile. Crossing the frontier I
felt myself in safety, a sensation, strange and new, for the first time
after so many years"--and so on and so on.
"Come, it's all nonsense!" Varvara Petrovna commented, folding up that
letter too. "If he's up till daybreak with his Athenian nights, he isn't
at his books for twelve hours a day. Was he drunk when he wrote it?
That Dundasov woman dares to send me greetings! But there, let him amuse
himself!"
The phrase "_dans le pays de Makar et de ses veaux_" meant: "wherever
Makar may drive his calves." Stepan Trofimovitch sometimes purposely
translated Russian proverbs and traditional sayings into French in the
most stupid way, though no doubt he was able to understand and translate
them better. But he did it from a feeling that it was chic, and thought
it witty.
But he did not amuse himself for long. He could not hold out for four
months, and was soon flying back to Skvoreshniki. His last letters
consisted of nothing but outpourings of the most sentimental love for
his absent friend, and were literally wet with tears. There are natures
extremely attached to home like lap-dogs. The meeting of the friends was
enthusiastic. Within two days everything was as before and even duller
than before. "My friend," Stepan Trofimovitch said to me a fortnight
after, in dead secret, "I have discovered something awful for me...
something new: _je suis un simple_ dependent, _et rien de plus! Mais
r-r-rien de plus._"
VIII
After this we had a period of stagnation which lasted nine years.
The hysterical outbreaks and sobbings on my shoulder that recurred at
regular intervals did not in the least mar our prosperity. I wonder that
Stepan Trofimovitch did not grow stout during this period. His nose was
a little redder, and his manner had gained in urbanity, that was all. By
degrees a circle of friends had formed around him, although it was never
a very large one. Though Varvara Petrovna had little to do with the
circle, yet we all recognised her as our patroness. After the lesson she
had received in Petersburg, she settled down in our town for good. In
winter she lived in her town house and spent the summer on her estate
in the neighbourhood. She had never enjoyed so much consequence and
prestige in our provincial society as during the last seven years of
this period, that is up to the time of the appointment of our present
governor. Our former governor, the mild Ivan Ossipovitch, who will never
be forgotten among us, was a near relation of Varvara Petrovna's, and
had at one time been under obligations to her. His wife trembled at the
very thought of displeasing her, while the homage paid her by provincial
society was carried almost to a pitch that suggested idolatry. So Stepan
Trofimovitch, too, had a good time. He was a member of the club, lost at
cards majestically, and was everywhere treated with respect, though
many people regarded him only as a "learned man." Later on, when Varvara
Petrovna allowed him to live in a separate house, we enjoyed greater
freedom than before. Twice a week we used to meet at his house. We were
a merry party, especially when he was not sparing of the champagne. The
wine came from the shop of the same Andreev. The bill was paid twice
a year by Varvara Petrovna, and on the day it was paid Stepan
Trofimovitch almost invariably suffered from an attack of his "summer
cholera."
