However, I deduced from the scene one conclusion which seemed to me
reliable--namely, that in the flow of fortuitous chances there is, if
not a system, at all events a sort of order. This, of course, is a very
strange thing. For instance, after a dozen middle figures there would
always occur a dozen or so outer ones. Suppose the ball stopped twice
at a dozen outer figures; it would then pass to a dozen of the first
ones, and then, again, to a dozen of the middle ciphers, and fall upon
them three or four times, and then revert to a dozen outers; whence,
after another couple of rounds, the ball would again pass to the first
figures, strike upon them once, and then return thrice to the middle
series--continuing thus for an hour and a half, or two hours. One,
three, two: one, three, two. It was all very curious. Again, for the
whole of a day or a morning the red would alternate with the black, but
almost without any order, and from moment to moment, so that scarcely
two consecutive rounds would end upon either the one or the other. Yet,
next day, or, perhaps, the next evening, the red alone would turn up,
and attain a run of over two score, and continue so for quite a length
of time--say, for a whole day. Of these circumstances the majority were
pointed out to me by Mr. Astley, who stood by the gaming-table the
whole morning, yet never once staked in person.
For myself, I lost all that I had on me, and with great speed. To begin
with, I staked two hundred gulden on "even," and won. Then I staked the
same amount again, and won: and so on some two or three times. At one
moment I must have had in my hands--gathered there within a space of
five minutes--about 4000 gulden. That, of course, was the proper moment
for me to have departed, but there arose in me a strange sensation as
of a challenge to Fate--as of a wish to deal her a blow on the cheek,
and to put out my tongue at her. Accordingly I set down the largest
stake allowed by the rules--namely, 4000 gulden--and lost. Fired by
this mishap, I pulled out all the money left to me, staked it all on
the same venture, and--again lost! Then I rose from the table, feeling
as though I were stupefied. What had happened to me I did not know;
but, before luncheon I told Polina of my losses--until which time I
walked about the Park.
At luncheon I was as excited as I had been at the meal three days ago.
Mlle. Blanche and the Frenchman were lunching with us, and it appeared
that the former had been to the Casino that morning, and had seen my
exploits there. So now she showed me more attention when talking to me;
while, for his part, the Frenchman approached me, and asked outright if
it had been my own money that I had lost. He appeared to be suspicious
as to something being on foot between Polina and myself, but I merely
fired up, and replied that the money had been all my own.
