It is to be supposed that she soon inwardly guessed the significance of
her friend's strange expression; she was quick and observant, and he was
sometimes extremely guileless. But the evenings went on as before, and
their conversations were just as poetic and interesting. And behold
on one occasion at nightfall, after the most lively and poetical
conversation, they parted affectionately, warmly pressing each other's
hands at the steps of the lodge where Stepan Trofimovitch slept. Every
summer he used to move into this little lodge which stood adjoining the
huge seignorial house of Skvoreshniki, almost in the garden. He had only
just gone in, and in restless hesitation taken a cigar, and not having
yet lighted it, was standing weary and motionless before the open
window, gazing at the light feathery white clouds gliding around the
bright moon, when suddenly a faint rustle made him start and turn
round. Varvara Petrovna, whom he had left only four minutes earlier,
was standing before him again. Her yellow face was almost blue. Her lips
were pressed tightly together and twitching at the corners. For ten full
seconds she looked him in the eyes in silence with a firm relentless
gaze, and suddenly whispered rapidly:
"I shall never forgive you for this!"
When, ten years later, Stepan Trofimovitch, after closing the doors,
told me this melancholy tale in a whisper, he vowed that he had been so
petrified on the spot that he had not seen or heard how Varvara Petrovna
had disappeared. As she never once afterwards alluded to the incident
and everything went on as though nothing had happened, he was all his
life inclined to the idea that it was all an hallucination, a symptom
of illness, the more so as he was actually taken ill that very night
and was indisposed for a fortnight, which, by the way, cut short the
interviews in the arbour.
But in spite of his vague theory of hallucination he seemed every day,
all his life, to be expecting the continuation, and, so to say, the
_denouement_ of this affair. He could not believe that that was the end of
it! And if so he must have looked strangely sometimes at his friend.
V
She had herself designed the costume for him which he wore for the rest
of his life. It was elegant and characteristic; a long black frock-coat,
buttoned almost to the top, but stylishly cut; a soft hat (in summer a
straw hat) with a wide brim, a white batiste cravat with a full bow
and hanging ends, a cane with a silver knob; his hair flowed on to his
shoulders. It was dark brown, and only lately had begun to get a little
grey. He was clean-shaven. He was said to have been very handsome in his
youth. And, to my mind, he was still an exceptionally impressive figure
even in old age. Besides, who can talk of old age at fifty-three?
From his special pose as a patriot, however, he did not try to appear
younger, but seemed rather to pride himself on the solidity of his
age, and, dressed as described, tall and thin with flowing hair, he
looked almost like a patriarch, or even more like the portrait of the
poet Kukolnik, engraved in the edition of his works published in 1830 or
thereabouts. This resemblance was especially striking when he sat in the
garden in summertime, on a seat under a bush of flowering lilac, with
both hands propped on his cane and an open book beside him, musing
poetically over the setting sun. In regard to books I may remark that
he came in later years rather to avoid reading. But that was only quite
towards the end. The papers and magazines ordered in great profusion by
Varvara Petrovna he was continually reading. He never lost interest in
the successes of Russian literature either, though he always maintained
a dignified attitude with regard to them. He was at one time engrossed
in the study of our home and foreign politics, but he soon gave up the
undertaking with a gesture of despair. It sometimes happened that he
would take De Tocqueville with him into the garden while he had a Paul
de Kock in his pocket. But these are trivial matters.
