Hard labour, as it is now carried on, presents no interest to the
convict; but it has its utility. The convict makes bricks, digs the
earth, builds; and all his occupations have a meaning and an end.
Sometimes, even the prisoner takes an interest in what he is doing. He
then wishes to work more skilfully, more advantageously. But let him be
constrained to pour water from one vessel into another, or to transport
a quantity of earth from one place to another, in order to perform the
contrary operation immediately afterwards, then I am persuaded that at
the end of a few days the prisoner would strangle himself or commit a
thousand crimes, punishable with death, rather than live in such an
abject condition and endure such torments. It is evident that such
punishment would be rather a torture, an atrocious vengeance, than a
correction. It would be absurd, for it would have no natural end.
I did not, however, arrive until the winter--in the month of
December--and the labour was then unimportant in our fortress. I had no
idea of the summer labour--five times as fatiguing. The prisoners,
during the winter season, broke up on the Irtitch some old boats
belonging to the Government, found occupation in the workshops, took
away the snow blown by hurricanes against the buildings, or burned and
pounded alabaster. As the day was very short, the work ceased at an
early hour, and every one returned to the convict prison, where there
was scarcely anything to do, except the supplementary work which the
convicts did for themselves.
Scarcely a third of the convicts worked seriously, the others idled
their time and wandered about without aim in the barracks, scheming and
insulting one another. Those who had a little money got drunk on
spirits, or lost what they had saved at gambling. And all this from
idleness, weariness, and want of something to do.
I learned, moreover, to know one suffering which is perhaps the
sharpest, the most painful that can be experienced in a house of
detention apart from laws and liberty. I mean, "forced cohabitation."
Cohabitation is more or less forced everywhere and always; but nowhere
is it so horrible as in a prison. There are men there with whom no one
would consent to live. I am certain that every convict, unconsciously
perhaps, has suffered from this.
The food of the prisoners seemed to me passable; some declared even that
it was incomparably better than in any Russian prison. I cannot certify
to this, for I was never in prison anywhere else. Many of us, besides,
were allowed to procure whatever nourishment we wanted. As fresh meat
cost only three kopecks a pound, those who always had money allowed
themselves the luxury of eating it. The majority of the prisoners were
contented with the regular ration.
When they praised the diet of the convict prison, they were thinking
only of the bread, which was distributed at the rate of so much per
room, and not individually or by weight. This last condition would have
frightened the convicts, for a third of them at least would have
constantly suffered from hunger; while, with the system in vogue, every
one was satisfied. Our bread was particularly nice, and was even
renowned in the town. Its good quality was attributed to the excellent
construction of the prison ovens. As for our cabbage-soup, it was cooked
and thickened with flour. It had not an appetising appearance. On
working days it was clear and thin; but what particularly disgusted me
was the way it was served. The prisoners, however, paid no attention to
that.
