"Oh, on the contrary! my mother will be very glad," said Gania,
courteously and kindly.
"I think only one of your rooms is engaged as yet, is it not? That
fellow Ferd-Ferd--"
"Ferdishenko."
"Yes--I don't like that Ferdishenko. I can't understand why Nastasia
Philipovna encourages him so. Is he really her cousin, as he says?"
"Oh dear no, it's all a joke. No more cousin than I am."
"Well, what do you think of the arrangement, prince?"
"Thank you, general; you have behaved very kindly to me; all the more
so since I did not ask you to help me. I don't say that out of pride. I
certainly did not know where to lay my head tonight. Rogojin asked me to
come to his house, of course, but--"
"Rogojin? No, no, my good fellow. I should strongly recommend you,
paternally,--or, if you prefer it, as a friend,--to forget all about
Rogojin, and, in fact, to stick to the family into which you are about
to enter."
"Thank you," began the prince; "and since you are so very kind there is
just one matter which I--"
"You must really excuse me," interrupted the general, "but I positively
haven't another moment now. I shall just tell Elizabetha Prokofievna
about you, and if she wishes to receive you at once--as I shall advise
her--I strongly recommend you to ingratiate yourself with her at the
first opportunity, for my wife may be of the greatest service to you in
many ways. If she cannot receive you now, you must be content to wait
till another time. Meanwhile you, Gania, just look over these accounts,
will you? We mustn't forget to finish off that matter--"
The general left the room, and the prince never succeeded in broaching
the business which he had on hand, though he had endeavoured to do so
four times.
Gania lit a cigarette and offered one to the prince. The latter accepted
the offer, but did not talk, being unwilling to disturb Gania's work.
He commenced to examine the study and its contents. But Gania hardly
so much as glanced at the papers lying before him; he was absent and
thoughtful, and his smile and general appearance struck the prince still
more disagreeably now that the two were left alone together.
Suddenly Gania approached our hero who was at the moment standing over
Nastasia Philipovna's portrait, gazing at it.
"Do you admire that sort of woman, prince?" he asked, looking intently
at him. He seemed to have some special object in the question.
"It's a wonderful face," said the prince, "and I feel sure that her
destiny is not by any means an ordinary, uneventful one. Her face is
smiling enough, but she must have suffered terribly--hasn't she? Her
eyes show it--those two bones there, the little points under her eyes,
just where the cheek begins. It's a proud face too, terribly proud! And
I--I can't say whether she is good and kind, or not. Oh, if she be but
good! That would make all well!"
