The tall prisoner remained calm and majestic. He felt that some answer
was expected from him, if he was not to be dishonoured, covered with
ridicule. It was necessary for him to show that he was a wonderful bird,
a personage. Accordingly, he cast a side look on his adversary,
endeavouring, with inexpressible contempt, to irritate him by looking at
him over his shoulders, up and down, as he would have done with an
insect. At last the little fat man was so irritated that he would have
thrown himself upon his adversary had not his companions surrounded the
combatants to prevent a serious quarrel from taking place.
"Fight with your fists, not with your tongues," cried a spectator from a
corner of the room.
"No, hold them," answered another, "they are going to fight. We are fine
fellows, one against seven is our style."
Fine fighting men! One was here for having sneaked a pound of bread, the
other is a pot-stealer; he was whipped by the executioner for stealing a
pot of curdled milk from an old woman.
"Enough, keep quiet," cried a retired soldier, whose business it was to
keep order in the barrack, and who slept in a corner of the room on a
bedstead of his own.
"Water, my children, water for Nevalid Petrovitch, water for our little
brother, who has just woke up."
"Your brother! Am I your brother? Did we ever drink a roublesworth of
spirits together?" muttered the old soldier as he passed his arms
through the sleeves of his great-coat.
The roll was about to be called, for it was already late. The prisoners
were hurrying towards the kitchen. They had to put on their pelisses,
and were to receive in their bi-coloured caps the bread which one of the
cooks--one of the bakers, that is to say--was distributing among them.
These cooks, like those who did the household work, were chosen by the
prisoners themselves. There were two for the kitchen, making four in all
for the convict prison. They had at their disposal the only
kitchen-knife authorised in the prison, which was used for cutting up
the bread and meat. The prisoners arranged themselves in groups around
the tables as best they could in caps and pelisses, with leather girdles
round their waists, all ready to begin work. Some of the convicts had
kvas before them, in which they steeped pieces of bread. The noise was
insupportable. Many of the convicts, however, were talking together in
corners with a steady, tranquil air.
"Good-morning and good appetite, Father Antonitch," said a young
prisoner, sitting down by the side of an old man, who had lost his
teeth.
"If you are not joking, well, good-morning," said the latter, without
raising his eyes, and endeavouring to masticate a piece of bread with
his toothless gums.
"I declare I fancied you were dead, Antonitch."
"Die first, I will follow you."
I sat down beside them. On my right two convicts were conversing with an
attempt at dignity.
