Agitation and bewilderment were the order of the day; everybody waited for
explanations, and asked one another what could be the meaning of this
mystery? Some proposed to go and see for themselves; all agreed that it
was _most_ extraordinary. The ladies wrote notes to each other, came and
whispered to one another, and sent their maids and husbands to find out
more.
What was particularly strange was, why had the prince put up at Maria
Alexandrovna's, and not somewhere else? This fact annoyed everyone; but,
most of all, Mrs. Antipova, who happened to be a distant relative of the
prince.
However, in order to clear up all these mysteries and find an answer to
all these questions, we must ourselves go and see Maria Alexandrovna. Will
you follow me in, kind reader? It is only ten in the morning, certainly,
as you point out; but I daresay she will receive such intimate friends,
all the same. Oh, yes; she'll see us all right.
CHAPTER III.
It is ten o'clock in the morning, and we are at Maria Alexandrovna's, and
in that room which the mistress calls her "salon" on great occasions; she
has a boudoir besides.
In this salon the walls are prettily papered, and the floor is nicely
painted; the furniture is mostly red; there is a fireplace, and on the
mantelpiece a bronze clock with some figure--a Cupid--upon it, in dreadfully
bad taste. There are large looking-glasses between the windows. Against
the back wall there stands a magnificent grand piano--Zina's--for Zina is a
musician. On a table in the middle of the room hisses a silver tea-urn,
with a very pretty tea-set alongside of it.
There is a lady pouring out tea, a distant relative of the family, and
living with Maria Alexandrovna in that capacity, one Nastasia Petrovna
Ziablova. She is a widow of over thirty, a brunette with a fresh-looking
face and lively black eyes, not at all bad looking.
She is of a very animated disposition, laughs a great deal, is fond of
scandal, of course; and can manage her own little affairs very nicely. She
has two children somewhere, being educated. She would much like to marry
again. Her last husband was a military man.
Maria Alexandrovna herself is sitting at the fire in a very benign frame
of mind; she is dressed in a pale-green dress, which becomes her very
well; she is unspeakably delighted at the arrival of the Prince, who, at
this moment, is sitting upstairs, at his toilet table. She is so happy,
that she does not even attempt to conceal her joy. A young man is standing
before her and relating something in an animated way; one can see in his
eyes that he wishes to curry favour with his listener.
This young fellow is about twenty-five years old, and his manners are
decidedly good, though he has a silly way of going into raptures, and has,
besides, a good deal too much of the "funny man" about him. He is well
dressed and his hair is light; he is not a bad-looking fellow. But we have
already heard of this gentleman: he is Mr. Mosgliakoff. Maria Alexandrovna
considers him rather a stupid sort of a man, but receives him very well.
He is an aspirant for the hand of her daughter Zina, whom, according to
his own account, he loves to distraction. In his conversation, he refers
to Zina every other minute, and does his best to bring a smile to her lips
by his witty remarks; but the girl is evidently very cool and indifferent
with him. At this moment she is standing away at the side near the piano,
turning over the leaves of some book.
