"But do let me hear how you have employed your time in your solitude, dear
prince," said Maria Alexandrovna. "I must confess that I have thought of
you so often, and often, that I am burning with impatience to hear more
about you and your doings."
"Employed my time? Oh, very busy; very busy, ge--generally. One rests, you
see, part of the day; and then I imagine a good many things."
"I should think you have a very strong imagination, haven't you, uncle?"
remarked Paul.
"Exceptionally so, my dear fellow. I sometimes imagine things which amaze
even myself! When I was at Kadueff,--by-the-by, you were vice-governor of
Kadueff, weren't you?"
"I, uncle! Why, what are you thinking of?"
"No? Just fancy, my dear fellow! and I've been thinking all this time how
f--funny that the vice-governor of Kadueff should be here with quite a
different face: he had a fine intelligent, dig--dignified face, you know. A
wo--wonderful fellow! Always writing verses, too; he was rather like the
Ki--King of Diamonds from the side view, but--"
"No, prince," interrupted Maria Alexandrovna. "I assure you, you'll ruin
yourself with the life you are leading! To make a hermit of oneself for
five years, and see no one, and hear no one: you're a lost man, dear
prince! Ask any one of those who love you, they'll all tell you the same;
you're a lost man!"
"No," cried the prince, "really?"
"Yes, I assure you of it! I am speaking to you as a sister--as a friend! I
am telling you this because you are very dear to me, and because the
memory of the past is sacred to me. No, no! You must change your way of
living; otherwise you will fall ill, and break up, and die!"
"Gracious heavens! Surely I shan't d--die so soon?" cried the old man.
"You--you are right about being ill; I am ill now and then. I'll tell you
all the sy--symptoms! I'll de--detail them to you. Firstly I--"
"Uncle, don't you think you had better tell us all about it another day?"
Paul interrupted hurriedly. "I think we had better be starting just now,
don't you?"
"Yes--yes, perhaps, perhaps. But remind me to tell you another time; it's a
most interesting case, I assure you!"
"But listen, my dear prince!" Maria Alexandrovna resumed, "why don't you
try being doctored abroad?"
"Ab--road? Yes, yes--I shall certainly go abroad. I remember when I was
abroad, about '20; it was delightfully g--gay and jolly. I very nearly
married a vi--viscountess, a French woman. I was fearfully in love, but
som--somebody else married her, not I. It was a very s--strange thing. I had
only gone away for a coup--couple of hours, and this Ger--German baron
fellow came and carried her off! He went into a ma--madhouse afterwards!"
"Yes, dear prince, you must look after your health. There are such good
doctors abroad; and--besides, the mere change of life, what will not that
alone do for you! You _must_ desert your dear Donchanovo, if only for a
time!"
