"Tfu! Goodness me! I should fall in love with him at once, out of pure
gratitude, if he only proposed to me!" said the widow, with her black eyes
all ablaze; "but, of course, it's all nonsense!"
"Nonsense, is it? Shall I make it sound sense, then, for you? Ask me
prettily, and if I don't make you his betrothed by this evening, you may
cut my little finger off! Why, there's nothing in the world easier than to
talk uncle into anything you please! He'll only say, 'Ye--yes, ye--yes,'
just as you heard him now! We'll marry him so that he doesn't know
anything about it, if you like? We'll deceive him and marry him, if you
please! Any way you like, it can be done! Why, it's for his own good; it's
out of pity for himself! Don't you think, seriously, Nastasia Petrovna,
that you had better put on some smart clothes in any case?"
Paul's enthusiasm amounted by now to something like madness, while the
widow's mouth watered at his idea, in spite of her better judgment.
"I know, I know I look horridly untidy!" she said. "I go about anyhow,
nowadays! There's nothing to dress for. Do I really look like a regular
cook?"
All this time Maria Alexandrovna sat still, with a strange expression on
her face. I shall not be far wrong if I say that she listened to Paul's
wild suggestion with a look of terror, almost: she was confused and
startled; at last she recollected herself, and spoke.
"All this is very nice, of course; but at the same time it is utter
nonsense, and perfectly out of the question!" she observed cuttingly.
"Why, why, my good Maria Alexandrovna? Why is it such nonsense, or why out
of the question?"
"For many reasons; and, principally because you are, as the prince is
also, a guest in my house; and I cannot permit anyone to forget their
respect towards my establishment! I shall consider your words as a joke,
Paul Alexandrovitch, and nothing more! Here comes the prince--thank
goodness!"
"Here I am!" cried the old man as he entered. "It's a wo--wonderful thing
how many good ideas of all s--sorts I'm having to-day! and another day I
may spend the whole of it without a single one! As--tonishing? not one all
day!"
"Probably the result of your accident, to-day, uncle! Your nerves got
shaken up, you see, and ----"
"Ye--yes, I think so, I think so too; and I look on the accident as
pro--fitable, on the whole; and therefore I'm going to excuse the coachman.
I don't think it was an at--tempt on my life, after all, do you? Besides,
he was punished a little while a--go, when his beard was sh--shaved off!"
"Beard shaved off? Why, uncle, his beard is as big as a German state!"
"Ye--yes, a German state, you are very happy in your ex--pressions, my boy!
but it's a fa--false one. Fancy what happened: I sent for a price-current
for false hair and beards, and found advertisements for splendid
ser--vants' and coachmen's beards, very cheap--extraordinarily so! I sent
for one, and it certainly was a be--auty. But when we wanted to clap it on
the coachman, we found he had one of his own t--twice as big; so I thought,
shall I cut off his, or let him wear it, and send this one b--back? and I
decided to shave his off, and let him wear the f--false one!"
