"How long would I have to study before I could go to the university?" he
asked.
She beamed encouragement upon his desire for knowledge, and said: "That
depends upon how much studying you have already done.  You have never
attended high school?  Of course not.  But did you finish grammar
school?"
"I had two years to run, when I left," he answered.  "But I was always
honorably promoted at school."
The next moment, angry with himself for the boast, he had gripped the
arms of the chair so savagely that every finger-end was stinging.  At the
same moment he became aware that a woman was entering the room.  He saw
the girl leave her chair and trip swiftly across the floor to the
newcomer.  They kissed each other, and, with arms around each other's
waists, they advanced toward him.  That must be her mother, he thought.
She was a tall, blond woman, slender, and stately, and beautiful.  Her
gown was what he might expect in such a house.  His eyes delighted in the
graceful lines of it.  She and her dress together reminded him of women
on the stage.  Then he remembered seeing similar grand ladies and gowns
entering the London theatres while he stood and watched and the policemen
shoved him back into the drizzle beyond the awning.  Next his mind leaped
to the Grand Hotel at Yokohama, where, too, from the sidewalk, he had
seen grand ladies.  Then the city and the harbor of Yokohama, in a
thousand pictures, began flashing before his eyes.  But he swiftly
dismissed the kaleidoscope of memory, oppressed by the urgent need of the
present.  He knew that he must stand up to be introduced, and he
struggled painfully to his feet, where he stood with trousers bagging at
the knees, his arms loose-hanging and ludicrous, his face set hard for
the impending ordeal.
CHAPTER II
The process of getting into the dining room was a nightmare to him.
Between halts and stumbles, jerks and lurches, locomotion had at times
seemed impossible.  But at last he had made it, and was seated alongside
of Her.  The array of knives and forks frightened him.  They bristled
with unknown perils, and he gazed at them, fascinated, till their dazzle
became a background across which moved a succession of forecastle
pictures, wherein he and his mates sat eating salt beef with
sheath-knives and fingers, or scooping thick pea-soup out of pannikins by
means of battered iron spoons.  The stench of bad beef was in his
nostrils, while in his ears, to the accompaniment of creaking timbers and
groaning bulkheads, echoed the loud mouth-noises of the eaters.  He
watched them eating, and decided that they ate like pigs.  Well, he would
be careful here.  He would make no noise.  He would keep his mind upon it
all the time.
He glanced around the table.  Opposite him was Arthur, and Arthur's
brother, Norman.  They were her brothers, he reminded himself, and his
heart warmed toward them.  How they loved each other, the members of this
family!  There flashed into his mind the picture of her mother, of the
kiss of greeting, and of the pair of them walking toward him with arms
entwined.  Not in his world were such displays of affection between
parents and children made.  It was a revelation of the heights of
existence that were attained in the world above.  It was the finest thing
yet that he had seen in this small glimpse of that world.  He was moved
deeply by appreciation of it, and his heart was melting with sympathetic
tenderness.  He had starved for love all his life.  His nature craved
love.  It was an organic demand of his being.  Yet he had gone without,
and hardened himself in the process.  He had not known that he needed
love.  Nor did he know it now.  He merely saw it in operation, and
thrilled to it, and thought it fine, and high, and splendid.
