CHAPTER VII
For the rest of the voyage Michael had the run of the ship.  Friendly to
all, he reserved his love for Steward alone, though he was not above many
an undignified romp with the fox-terriers.
"The most playful-minded dog, without being silly, I ever saw," was Dag
Daughtry's verdict to the Shortlands planter, to whom he had just sold
one of his turtle-shell combs.  "You see, some dogs never get over the
play-idea, an' they're never good for anything else.  But not Killeny
Boy.  He can come down to seriousness in a second.  I'll show you, and
I'll show you he's got a brain that counts to five an' knows wireless
telegraphy.  You just watch."
At the moment the steward made his faint lip-noise--so faint that he
could not hear it himself and was almost for wondering whether or not he
had made it; so faint that the Shortlands planter did not dream that he
was making it.  At that moment Michael was lying squirming on his back a
dozen feet away, his legs straight up in the air, both fox-terriers
worrying with well-stimulated ferociousness.  With a quick out-thrust of
his four legs, he rolled over on his side and with questioning eyes and
pricked ears looked and listened.  Again Daughtry made the lip-noise;
again the Shortlands planter did not hear nor guess; and Michael bounded
to his feet and to his lord's side.
"Some dog, eh?" the steward boasted.
"But how did he know you wanted him?" the planter queried.  "You never
called him."
"Mental telepathy, the affinity of souls pitched in the same whatever-you-
call-it harmony," the steward mystified.  "You see, Killeny an' me are
made of the same kind of stuff, only run into different moulds.  He might
a-been my full brother, or me his, only for some mistake in the creation
factory somewhere.  Now I'll show you he knows his bit of arithmetic."
And, drawing the paper balls from his pocket, Dag Daughtry demonstrated
to the amazement and satisfaction of the ring of passengers Michael's
ability to count to five.
"Why, sir," Daughtry concluded the performance, "if I was to order four
glasses of beer in a public-house ashore, an' if I was absent-minded an'
didn't notice the waiter 'd only brought three, Killeny Boy there 'd
raise a row instanter."
Kwaque was no longer compelled to enjoy his jews' harp on the gratings
over the fire-room, now that Michael's presence on the _Makambo_ was
known, and, in the stateroom, on stolen occasions, he made experiments of
his own with Michael.  Once the jews' harp began emitting its barbaric
rhythms, Michael was helpless.  He needs must open his mouth and pour
forth an unwilling, gushing howl.  But, as with Jerry, it was not mere
howl.  It was more akin to a mellow singing; and it was not long before
Kwaque could lead his voice up and down, in rough time and tune, within a
definite register.
Michael never liked these lessons, for, looking down upon Kwaque, he
hated in any way to be under the black's compulsion.  But all this was
changed when Dag Daughtry surprised them at a singing lesson.  He
resurrected the harmonica with which it was his wont, ashore in public-
houses, to while away the time between bottles.  The quickest way to
start Michael singing, he discovered, was with minors; and, once started,
he would sing on and on for as long as the music played.  Also, in the
absence of an instrument, Michael would sing to the prompting and
accompaniment of Steward's voice, who would begin by wailing "kow-kow"
long and sadly, and then branch out on some old song or ballad.  Michael
had hated to sing with Kwaque, but he loved to do it with Steward, even
when Steward brought him on deck to perform before the laughter-shrieking
passengers.
