Yet Michael permitted Kwaque to serve him in matters of food, water, and
other offices, at first in the absence of Steward attending to his ship
duties, and, later, at any time.  For he realized, without thinking about
it at all, that whatever Kwaque did for him, whatever food Kwaque spread
for him, really proceeded, not from Kwaque, but from Kwaque's master who
was also his master.  Yet Kwaque bore no grudge against Michael, and was
himself so interested in his lord's welfare and comfort--this lord who
had saved his life that terrible day on King William Island from the two
grief-stricken pig-owners--that he cherished Michael for his lord's sake.
Seeing the dog growing into his master's affection, Kwaque himself
developed a genuine affection for Michael--much in the same way that he
worshipped anything of the steward's, whether the shoes he polished for
him, the clothes he brushed and cleaned for him, or the six bottles of
beer he put into the ice-chest each day for him.
In truth, there was nothing of the master-quality in Kwaque, while
Michael was a natural aristocrat.  Michael, out of love, would serve
Steward, but Michael lorded it over the kinky-head.  Kwaque possessed
overwhelmingly the slave-nature, while in Michael there was little more
of the slave-nature than was found in the North American Indians when the
vain attempt was made to make them into slaves on the plantations of
Cuba.  All of which was no personal vice of Kwaque or virtue of Michael.
Michael's heredity, rigidly selected for ages by man, was chiefly
composed of fierceness and faithfulness.  And fierceness and
faithfulness, together, invariably produce pride.  And pride cannot exist
without honour, nor can honour without poise.
Michael's crowning achievement, under Daughtry's tutelage, in the first
days in the stateroom, was to learn to count up to five.  Many hours of
work were required, however, in spite of his unusual high endowment of
intelligence.  For he had to learn, first, the spoken numerals; second,
to see with his eyes and in his brain differentiate between one object,
and all other groups of objects up to and including the group of five;
and, third, in his mind, to relate an object, or any group of objects,
with its numerical name as uttered by Steward.
In the training Dag Daughtry used balls of paper tied about with twine.
He would toss the five balls under the bunk and tell Michael to fetch
three, and neither two, nor four, but three would Michael bring forth and
deliver into his hand.  When Daughtry threw three under the bunk and
demanded four, Michael would deliver the three, search about vainly for
the fourth, then dance pleadingly with bobs of tail and half-leaps about
Steward, and finally leap into the bed and secure the fourth from under
the pillow or among the blankets.
It was the same with other known objects.  Up to five, whether shoes or
shirts or pillow-slips, Michael would fetch the number requested.  And
between the mathematical mind of Michael, who counted to five, and the
mind of the ancient black at Tulagi, who counted sticks of tobacco in
units of five, was a distance shorter than that between Michael and Dag
Daughtry who could do multiplication and long division.  In the same
manner, up the same ladder of mathematical ability, a still greater
distance separated Dag Daughtry from Captain Duncan, who by mathematics
navigated the _Makambo_.  Greatest mathematical distance of all was that
between Captain Duncan's mind and the mind of an astronomer who charted
the heavens and navigated a thousand million miles away among the stars
and who tossed, a mere morsel of his mathematical knowledge, the few
shreds of information to Captain Duncan that enabled him to know from day
to day the place of the _Makambo_ on the sea.
