"'Well, whatcher want?' he wheezed with returning breath.
"'I want Spargo, the only Spargo.'
"'Then leave go, an' I'll glide an' see.'
"'No you don't, my lily-white.' And I took a tighter grip on his collar.
'No bouncers in mine, understand! I'll go along.'"
Leith dreamily surveyed the long ash of his cigar and turned to me.
"Do you know, Anak, you can't appreciate the joy of being the buffoon,
playing the clown. You couldn't do it if you wished. Your pitiful little
conventions and smug assumptions of decency would prevent. But simply to
turn loose your soul to every whimsicality, to play the fool unafraid of
any possible result, why, that requires a man other than a householder
and law-respecting citizen.
"However, as I was saying, I saw the only Spargo. He was a big, beefy,
red-faced personage, full-jowled and double-chinned, sweating at his
desk in his shirt-sleeves. It was August, you know. He was talking into
a telephone when I entered, or swearing rather, I should say, and
the while studying me with his eyes. When he hung up, he turned to me
expectantly.
"'You are a very busy man,' I said.
"He jerked a nod with his head, and waited.
"'And after all, is it worth it?' I went on. 'What does life mean that
it should make you sweat? What justification do you find in sweat? Now
look at me. I toil not, neither do I spin--'
"'Who are you? What are you?' he bellowed with a suddenness that was,
well, rude, tearing the words out as a dog does a bone.
"'A very pertinent question, sir,' I acknowledged. 'First, I am a
man; next, a down-trodden American citizen. I am cursed with neither
profession, trade, nor expectations. Like Esau, I am pottageless.
My residence is everywhere; the sky is my coverlet. I am one of the
dispossessed, a sansculotte, a proletarian, or, in simpler phraseology
addressed to your understanding, a tramp.'
"'What the hell--?'
"'Nay, fair sir, a tramp, a man of devious ways and strange lodgements
and multifarious--'
"'Quit it!' he shouted. 'What do you want?'
"'I want money.'
"He started and half reached for an open drawer where must have reposed
a revolver, then bethought himself and growled, 'This is no bank.'
"'Nor have I checks to cash. But I have, sir, an idea, which, by your
leave and kind assistance, I shall transmute into cash. In short, how
does a tramp sketch, done by a tramp to the life, strike you? Are you
open to it? Do your readers hunger for it? Do they crave after it? Can
they be happy without it?'
"I thought for a moment that he would have apoplexy, but he quelled the
unruly blood and said he liked my nerve. I thanked him and assured him I
liked it myself. Then he offered me a cigar and said he thought he'd do
business with me.
"'But mind you,' he said, when he had jabbed a bunch of copy paper into
my hand and given me a pencil from his vest pocket, 'mind you, I won't
stand for the high and flighty philosophical, and I perceive you have
a tendency that way. Throw in the local color, wads of it, and a bit of
sentiment perhaps, but no slumgullion about political economy nor social
strata or such stuff. Make it concrete, to the point, with snap and go
and life, crisp and crackling and interesting--tumble?'
