In the course of his life godlike he ignores the flesh--until he gets to
table.  He raises his hands in horror at the thought of the brutish
prize-fighter, and then sits down and gorges himself on roast beef, rare
and red, running blood under every sawing thrust of the implement called
a knife.  He has a piece of cloth which he calls a napkin, with which he
wipes from his lips, and from the hair on his lips, the greasy juices of
the meat.
He is fastidiously nauseated at the thought of two prize-fighters
bruising each other with their fists; and at the same time, because it
will cost him some money, he will refuse to protect the machines in his
factory, though he is aware that the lack of such protection every year
mangles, batters, and destroys out of all humanness thousands of
working-men, women, and children.  He will chatter about things refined
and spiritual and godlike like himself, and he and the men who herd with
him will calmly adulterate the commodities they put upon the market and
which annually kill tens of thousands of babies and young children.
He will recoil at the suggestion of the horrid spectacle of two men
confronting each other with gloved hands in the roped arena, and at the
same time he will clamour for larger armies and larger navies, for more
destructive war machines, which, with a single discharge, will disrupt
and rip to pieces more human beings than have died in the whole history
of prize-fighting.  He will bribe a city council for a franchise or a
state legislature for a commercial privilege; but he has never been
known, in all his sleep-walking history, to bribe any legislative body in
order to achieve any moral end, such as, for instance, abolition of
prize-fighting, child-labour laws, pure food bills, or old age pensions.
"Ah, but we do not stand for the commercial life," object the refined,
scholarly, and professional men.  They are also sleep-walkers.  They do
not stand for the commercial life, but neither do they stand against it
with all their strength.  They submit to it, to the brutality and carnage
of it.  They develop classical economists who announce that the only
possible way for men and women to get food and shelter is by the existing
method.  They produce university professors, men who claim the _role_ of
teachers, and who at the same time claim that the austere ideal of
learning is passionless pursuit of passionless intelligence.  They serve
the men who lead the commercial life, give to their sons somnambulistic
educations, preach that sleep-walking is the only way to walk, and that
the persons who walk otherwise are atavisms or anarchists.  They paint
pictures for the commercial men, write books for them, sing songs for
them, act plays for them, and dose them with various drugs when their
bodies have grown gross or dyspeptic from overeating and lack of
exercise.
Then there are the good, kind somnambulists who don't prize-fight, who
don't play the commercial game, who don't teach and preach somnambulism,
who don't do anything except live on the dividends that are coined out of
the wan, white fluid that runs in the veins of little children, out of
mothers' tears, the blood of strong men, and the groans and sighs of the
old.  The receiver is as bad as the thief--ay, and the thief is finer
than the receiver; he at least has the courage to run the risk.  But the
good, kind people who don't do anything won't believe this, and the
assertion will make them angry--for a moment.  They possess several magic
phrases, which are like the incantations of a voodoo doctor driving
devils away.  The phrases that the good, kind people repeat to themselves
and to one another sound like "abstinence," "temperance," "thrift,"
"virtue."  Sometimes they say them backward, when they sound like
"prodigality," "drunkenness," "wastefulness," and "immorality."  They do
not really know the meaning of these phrases, but they think they do, and
that is all that is necessary for somnambulists.  The calm repetition of
such phrases invariably drives away the waking devils and lulls to
slumber.
