"God!" proclaimed that apostle of the hard.  "Out of our loins has come
a race of weaklings.  When I was sixteen I toyed with things like that."
"You forget, avuncular," Kit retorted, "that I wasn't raised on
bear-meat."
"And I'll toy with it when I'm sixty."
"You've got to show me."
John Bellew did.  He was forty-eight, but he bent over the sack,
applied a tentative, shifting grip that balanced it, and, with a quick
heave, stood erect, the somersaulted sack of flour on his shoulder.
"Knack, my boy, knack--and a spine."
Kit took off his hat reverently.
"You're a wonder, avuncular, a shining wonder.  D'ye think I can learn
the knack?"
John Bellew shrugged his shoulders.
"You'll be hitting the back trail before we get started."
"Never you fear," Kit groaned.  "There's O'Hara, the roaring lion, down
there.  I'm not going back till I have to."
III.
Kit's first pack was a success.  Up to Finnegan's Crossing they had
managed to get Indians to carry the twenty-five hundred-pound outfit.
From that point their own backs must do the work.  They planned to move
forward at the rate of a mile a day.  It looked easy--on paper.  Since
John Bellew was to stay in camp and do the cooking, he would be unable
to make more than an occasional pack; so, to each of the three young
men fell the task of carrying eight hundred pounds one mile each day.
If they made fifty-pound packs, it meant a daily walk of sixteen miles
loaded and of fifteen miles light--"Because we don't back-trip the last
time," Kit explained the pleasant discovery; eighty-pound packs meant
nineteen miles travel each day; and hundred-pound packs meant only
fifteen miles.
"I don't like walking," said Kit.  "Therefore I shall carry one hundred
pounds."  He caught the grin of incredulity on his uncle's face, and
added hastily:  "Of course I shall work up to it.  A fellow's got to
learn the ropes and tricks.  I'll start with fifty."
He did, and ambled gaily along the trail.  He dropped the sack at the
next camp-site and ambled back.  It was easier than he had thought.
But two miles had rubbed off the velvet of his strength and exposed the
underlying softness.  His second pack was sixty-five pounds.  It was
more difficult, and he no longer ambled.  Several times, following the
custom of all packers, he sat down on the ground, resting the pack
behind him on a rock or stump.  With the third pack he became bold.  He
fastened the straps to a ninety-five-pound sack of beans and started.
At the end of a hundred yards he felt that he must collapse.  He sat
down and mopped his face.
"Short hauls and short rests," he muttered.  "That's the trick."
Sometimes he did not make a hundred yards, and each time he struggled
to his feet for another short haul the pack became undeniably heavier.
He panted for breath, and the sweat streamed from him.  Before he had
covered a quarter of a mile he stripped off his woollen shirt and hung
it on a tree.  A little later he discarded his hat.  At the end of half
a mile he decided he was finished.  He had never exerted himself so in
his life, and he knew that he was finished.  As he sat and panted, his
gaze fell upon the big revolver and the heavy cartridge-belt.
