"Well, you're the real goods at any rate," Kit grinned back at him. "It
makes me respect God the more just to look at you."
"He was sure goin' some, eh?" was Shorty's fashion of overcoming the
embarrassment of the compliment.
The trail by water crossed Lake Le Barge.  Here was no fast current,
but a tideless stretch of forty miles which must be rowed unless a fair
wind blew.  But the time for fair wind was past, and an icy gale blew
in their teeth out of the north.  This made a rough sea, against which
it was almost impossible to pull the boat.  Added to their troubles was
driving snow; also, the freezing of the water on their oar-blades kept
one man occupied in chopping it off with a hatchet.  Compelled to take
their turn at the oars, Sprague and Stine patently loafed.  Kit had
learned how to throw his weight on an oar, but he noted that his
employers made a seeming of throwing their weights and that they dipped
their oars at a cheating angle.
At the end of three hours, Sprague pulled his oar in and said they
would run back into the mouth of the river for shelter.  Stine seconded
him, and the several hard-won miles were lost.  A second day, and a
third, the same fruitless attempt was made.  In the river mouth, the
continually arriving boats from White Horse made a flotilla of over two
hundred.  Each day forty or fifty arrived, and only two or three won to
the north-west short of the lake and did not come back.  Ice was now
forming in the eddies, and connecting from eddy to eddy in thin lines
around the points.  The freeze-up was very imminent.
"We could make it if they had the souls of clams," Kit told Shorty, as
they dried their moccasins by the fire on the evening of the third day.
"We could have made it to-day if they hadn't turned back.  Another
hour's work would have fetched that west shore. They're--they're babes
in the woods."
"Sure," Shorty agreed.  He turned his moccasin to the flame and debated
a moment.  "Look here, Smoke.  It's hundreds of miles to Dawson.  If we
don't want to freeze in here, we've got to do something.  What d'ye
say?"
Kit looked at him, and waited.
"We've got the immortal cinch on them two babes," Shorty expounded.
"They can give orders an' shed mazuma, but, as you say, they're plum
babes.  If we're goin' to Dawson, we got to take charge of this here
outfit."
They looked at each other.
"It's a go," said Kit, as his hand went out in ratification.
In the morning, long before daylight, Shorty issued his call.
"Come on!" he roared.  "Tumble out, you sleepers!  Here's your coffee!
Kick in to it!  We're goin' to make a start!"
Grumbling and complaining, Stine and Sprague were forced to get under
way two hours earlier than ever before.  If anything, the gale was
stiffer, and in a short time every man's face was iced up, while the
oars were heavy with ice.  Three hours they struggled, and four, one
man steering, one chopping ice, two toiling at the oars, and each
taking his various turns.  The north-west shore loomed nearer and
nearer.  The gale blew even harder, and at last Sprague pulled in his
oar in token of surrender.  Shorty sprang to it, though his relief had
only begun.
