"That's 'most as bad as your bear-meat slam at 'em," Shorty confided
later.
Kit chuckled.  Along with the continuous discovery of his own powers
had come an ever-increasing disapproval of the two masters.  It was not
so much irritation, which was always present, as disgust.  He had got
his taste of the meat, and liked it; but they were teaching him how not
to eat it.  Privily, he thanked God that he was not made as they.  He
came to dislike them to a degree that bordered on hatred.  Their
malingering bothered him less than their helpless inefficiency.
Somewhere in him, old Isaac Bellew and all the rest of the hardy
Bellews were making good.
"Shorty," he said one day, in the usual delay of getting started, "I
could almost fetch them a rap over the head with an oar and bury them
in the river."
"Same here," Shorty agreed.  "They're not meat-eaters.  They're
fish-eaters, and they sure stink."
III.
They came to the rapids, first, the Box Canyon, and, several miles
below, the White Horse.  The Box Canyon was adequately named.  It was a
box, a trap.  Once in it, the only way out was through.  On either side
arose perpendicular walls of rock.  The river narrowed to a fraction of
its width, and roared through this gloomy passage in a madness of
motion that heaped the water in the centre into a ridge fully eight
feet higher than at the rocky sides.  This ridge, in turn, was crested
with stiff, upstanding waves that curled over, yet remained each in its
unvarying place.  The Canyon was well feared, for it had collected its
toll of dead from the passing gold-rushers.
Tying to the bank above, where lay a score of other anxious boats, Kit
and his companions went ahead on foot to investigate.  They crept to
the brink and gazed down at the swirl of water.  Sprague drew back
shuddering.
"My God!" he exclaimed.  "A swimmer hasn't a chance in that."
Shorty touched Kit significantly with his elbow and said in an
undertone:
"Cold feet.  Dollars to doughnuts they don't go through."
Kit scarcely heard.  From the beginning of the boat trip he had been
learning the stubbornness and inconceivable viciousness of the
elements, and this glimpse of what was below him acted as a challenge.
"We've got to ride that ridge," he said.  "If we get off of it we'll
hit the walls--"
"And never know what hit us," was Shorty's verdict.  "Can you swim,
Smoke?"
"I'd wish I couldn't if anything went wrong in there."
"That's what I say," a stranger, standing alongside and peering down
into the Canyon, said mournfully.  "And I wish I were through it."
"I wouldn't sell my chance to go through," Kit answered.
He spoke honestly, but it was with the idea of heartening the man. He
turned to go back to the boat.
"Are you going to tackle it?" the man asked.
Kit nodded.
"I wish I could get the courage to," the other confessed.  "I've been
here for hours.  The longer I look, the more afraid I am.  I am not a
boatman, and I have only my nephew with me, who is a young boy, and my
wife.  If you get through safely, will you run my boat through?"
