By a fire, under the shelter of a tarpaulin, squatted a short, thick
man smoking a brown-paper cigarette.
"Hello," he said.  "Are you Mister Sprague's new man?"
As Kit nodded, he thought he had noted a shade of emphasis on the
mister and the man, and he was sure of a hint of a twinkle in the
corner of the eye.
"Well, I'm Doc Stine's man," the other went on.  "I'm five feet two
inches long, and my name's Shorty, Jack Short for short, and sometimes
known as Johnny-on-the-Spot."
Kit put out his hand and shook.
"Were you raised on bear-meat?" he queried.
"Sure," was the answer; "though my first feedin' was buffalo-milk as
near as I can remember.  Sit down an' have some grub.  The bosses ain't
turned out yet."
And despite the one breakfast, Kit sat down under the tarpaulin and ate
a second breakfast thrice as hearty.  The heavy, purging toil of weeks
had given him the stomach and appetite of a wolf.  He could eat
anything, in any quantity, and be unaware that he possessed a
digestion.  Shorty he found voluble and pessimistic, and from him he
received surprising tips concerning their bosses, and ominous forecasts
of the expedition.  Thomas Stanley Sprague was a budding mining
engineer and the son of a millionaire.  Doctor Adolph Stine was also
the son of a wealthy father.  And, through their fathers, both had been
backed by an investing syndicate in the Klondike adventure.
"Oh, they're sure made of money," Shorty expounded.  "When they hit the
beach at Dyea, freight was seventy cents, but no Indians.  There was a
party from Eastern Oregon, real miners, that'd managed to get a team of
Indians together at seventy cents.  Indians had the straps on the
outfit, three thousand pounds of it, when along comes Sprague and
Stine.  They offered eighty cents and ninety, and at a dollar a pound
the Indians jumped the contract and took off their straps. Sprague and
Stine came through, though it cost them three thousand, and the Oregon
bunch is still on the beach.  They won't get through till next year.
"Oh, they are real hummers, your boss and mine, when it comes to
sheddin' the mazuma an' never mindin' other folks' feelin's.  What did
they do when they hit Linderman?  The carpenters was just putting in
the last licks on a boat they'd contracted to a 'Frisco bunch for six
hundred.  Sprague and Stine slipped 'em an even thousand, and they
jumped their contract.  It's a good-lookin' boat, but it's jiggered the
other bunch.  They've got their outfit right here, but no boat.  And
they're stuck for next year.
"Have another cup of coffee, and take it from me that I wouldn't travel
with no such outfit if I didn't want to get to Klondike so blamed bad.
They ain't hearted right.  They'd take the crape off the door of a
house in mourning if they needed it in their business. Did you sign a
contract?"
