“Le Grant,” Charley answered.
“So I say, Mr. Le Grant, I am deeply obliged to you for the assistance
you offer.  And I shall be glad, most glad, sir, to co-operate with you
in every way.  My watchmen and boats are at your disposal.  Come and see
me at the San Francisco offices any time, or telephone at my expense.
And don’t be afraid of spending money.  I’ll foot your expenses, whatever
they are, so long as they are within reason.  The situation is growing
desperate, and something must be done to determine whether I or that band
of ruffians own those oyster beds.”
“Now we’ll see Neil,” Charley said, when he had seen Mr. Taft upon his
train to San Francisco.
Not only did Neil Partington interpose no obstacle to our adventure, but
he proved to be of the greatest assistance.  Charley and I knew nothing
of the oyster industry, while his head was an encyclopadia of facts
concerning it.  Also, within an hour or so, he was able to bring to us a
Greek boy of seventeen or eighteen who knew thoroughly well the ins and
outs of oyster piracy.
At this point I may as well explain that we of the fish patrol were free
lances in a way.  While Neil Partington, who was a patrolman proper,
received a regular salary, Charley and I, being merely deputies, received
only what we earned—that is to say, a certain percentage of the fines
imposed on convicted violators of the fish laws.  Also, any rewards that
chanced our way were ours.  We offered to share with Partington whatever
we should get from Mr. Taft, but the patrolman would not hear of it.  He
was only too happy, he said, to do a good turn for us, who had done so
many for him.
We held a long council of war, and mapped out the following line of
action.  Our faces were unfamiliar on the Lower Bay, but as the
_Reindeer_ was well known as a fish-patrol sloop, the Greek boy, whose
name was Nicholas, and I were to sail some innocent-looking craft down to
Asparagus Island and join the oyster pirates’ fleet.  Here, according to
Nicholas’s description of the beds and the manner of raiding, it was
possible for us to catch the pirates in the act of stealing oysters, and
at the same time to get them in our power.  Charley was to be on the
shore, with Mr. Taft’s watchmen and a posse of constables, to help us at
the right time.
“I know just the boat,” Neil said, at the conclusion of the discussion,
“a crazy old sloop that’s lying over at Tiburon.  You and Nicholas can go
over by the ferry, charter it for a song, and sail direct for the beds.”
“Good luck be with you, boys,” he said at parting, two days later.
“Remember, they are dangerous men, so be careful.”
Nicholas and I succeeded in chartering the sloop very cheaply; and
between laughs, while getting up sail, we agreed that she was even
crazier and older than she had been described.  She was a big,
flat-bottomed, square-sterned craft, sloop-rigged, with a sprung mast,
slack rigging, dilapidated sails, and rotten running-gear, clumsy to
handle and uncertain in bringing about, and she smelled vilely of coal
tar, with which strange stuff she had been smeared from stem to stern and
from cabin-roof to centreboard.  And to cap it all, _Coal Tar Maggie_ was
printed in great white letters the whole length of either side.
