We thundered on past the fishermen, and nothing had happened.  Charley
grinned at the disappointment he saw in my face, and then shouted:
“Stand by the main-sheet to jibe!”
He put the wheel hard over, and the yacht whirled around obediently.  The
main-sheet slacked and dipped, then shot over our heads after the boom
and tautened with a crash on the traveller.  The yacht heeled over almost
on her beam ends, and a great wail went up from the seasick passengers as
they swept across the cabin floor in a tangled mass and piled into a heap
in the starboard bunks.
But we had no time for them.  The yacht, completing the manouvre, headed
into the wind with slatting canvas, and righted to an even keel.  We were
still plunging ahead, and directly in our path was the skiff.  I saw Big
Alec dive overboard and his mate leap for our bowsprit.  Then came the
crash as we struck the boat, and a series of grinding bumps as it passed
under our bottom.
“That fixes his rifle,” I heard Charley mutter, as he sprang upon the
deck to look for Big Alec somewhere astern.
The wind and sea quickly stopped our forward movement, and we began to
drift backward over the spot where the skiff had been.  Big Alec’s black
head and swarthy face popped up within arm’s reach; and all unsuspecting
and very angry with what he took to be the clumsiness of amateur sailors,
he was hauled aboard.  Also he was out of breath, for he had dived deep
and stayed down long to escape our keel.
The next instant, to the perplexity and consternation of the owner,
Charley was on top of Big Alec in the cockpit, and I was helping bind him
with gaskets.  The owner was dancing excitedly about and demanding an
explanation, but by that time Big Alec’s partner had crawled aft from the
bowsprit and was peering apprehensively over the rail into the cockpit.
Charley’s arm shot around his neck and the man landed on his back beside
Big Alec.
“More gaskets!” Charley shouted, and I made haste to supply them.
The wrecked skiff was rolling sluggishly a short distance to windward,
and I trimmed the sheets while Charley took the wheel and steered for it.
“These two men are old offenders,” he explained to the angry owner; “and
they are most persistent violators of the fish and game laws.  You have
seen them caught in the act, and you may expect to be subponaed as
witness for the state when the trial comes off.”
As he spoke he rounded alongside the skiff.  It had been torn from the
line, a section of which was dragging to it.  He hauled in forty or fifty
feet with a young sturgeon still fast in a tangle of barbless hooks,
slashed that much of the line free with his knife, and tossed it into the
cockpit beside the prisoners.
“And there’s the evidence, Exhibit A, for the people,” Charley continued.
“Look it over carefully so that you may identify it in the court-room
with the time and place of capture.”
