"Gee!" Tim said to the general landscape. "The old man wouldn't raise a
roar if I snitched on you for that thirty thousand. It makes me scared
to think of it."
And from the fact that Tim thus openly mentioned the matter, Young Dick
concluded that there was no possibility of the policeman's son
betraying him.
Not until six weeks afterward, in Arizona, did Young Dick bring up the
subject.
"You see, Tim," he said, "I've got slathers of money. It's growing all
the time, and I ain't spending a cent of it, not so as you can
notice... though that Mrs. Summerstone is getting a cold eighteen
hundred a year out of me, with board and carriages thrown in, while you
an' I are glad to get the leavings of firemen's pails in the
round-houses. Just the same, my money's growing. What's ten per cent,
on twenty dollars?"
Tim Hagan stared at the shimmering heat-waves of the desert and tried
to solve the problem.
"What's one-tenth of twenty million?" Young Dick demanded irritably.
"Huh!--two million, of course."
"Well, five per cent's half of ten per cent. What does twenty million
earn at five per cent, for one year?"
Tim hesitated.
"Half of it, half of two million!" Young Dick cried. "At that rate I'm
a million richer every year. Get that, and hang on to it, and listen to
me. When I'm good and willing to go back--but not for years an'
years--we'll fix it up, you and I. When I say the word, you'll write to
your father. He'll jump out to where we are waiting, pick me up, and
cart me back. Then he'll collect the thirty thousand reward from my
guardians, quit the police force, and most likely start a saloon."
"Thirty thousand's a hell of a lot of money," was Tim's nonchalant way
of expressing his gratitude.
"Not to me," Young Dick minimized his generosity. "Thirty thousand goes
into a million thirty-three times, and a million's only a year's
turnover of my money."
But Tim Hagan never lived to see his father a saloon keeper. Two days
later, on a trestle, the lads were fired out of an empty box-car by a
brake-man who should have known better. The trestle spanned a dry
ravine. Young Dick looked down at the rocks seventy feet below and
demurred.
"There's room on the trestle," he said; "but what if the train starts
up?"
"It ain't goin' to start--beat it while you got time," the brakeman
insisted. "The engine's takin' water at the other side. She always
takes it here."
But for once the engine did not take water. The evidence at the inquest
developed that the engineer had found no water in the tank and started
on. Scarcely had the two boys dropped from the side-door of the
box-car, and before they had made a score of steps along the narrow way
between the train and the abyss, than the train began to move. Young
Dick, quick and sure in all his perceptions and adjustments, dropped on
the instant to hands and knees on the trestle. This gave him better
holding and more space, because he crouched beneath the overhang of the
box-cars. Tim, not so quick in perceiving and adjusting, also overcome
with Celtic rage at the brakeman, instead of dropping to hands and
knees, remained upright to flare his opinion of the brakeman, to the
brakeman, in lurid and ancestral terms.
