In December he received a letter from Corry Hutchinson.  He had
just seen Mabel Holmes.  She was all she ought to be, to be
Lawrence Pentfield's wife, he wrote.  He was enthusiastic, and his
letter sent the blood tingling through Pentfield's veins.  Other
letters followed, one on the heels of another, and sometimes two or
three together when the mail lumped up.  And they were all in the
same tenor.  Corry had just come from Myrdon Avenue; Corry was just
going to Myrdon Avenue; or Corry was at Myrdon Avenue.  And he
lingered on and on in San Francisco, nor even mentioned his trip to
Detroit.
Lawrence Pentfield began to think that his partner was a great deal
in the company of Mabel Holmes for a fellow who was going east to
see his people.  He even caught himself worrying about it at times,
though he would have worried more had he not known Mabel and Corry
so well.  Mabel's letters, on the other hand, had a great deal to
say about Corry.  Also, a thread of timidity that was near to
disinclination ran through them concerning the trip in over the ice
and the Dawson marriage.  Pentfield wrote back heartily, laughing
at her fears, which he took to be the mere physical ones of danger
and hardship rather than those bred of maidenly reserve.
But the long winter and tedious wait, following upon the two
previous long winters, were telling upon him.  The superintendence
of the men and the pursuit of the pay streak could not break the
irk of the daily round, and the end of January found him making
occasional trips to Dawson, where he could forget his identity for
a space at the gambling tables.  Because he could afford to lose,
he won, and "Pentfield's luck" became a stock phrase among the faro
players.
His luck ran with him till the second week in February.  How much
farther it might have run is conjectural; for, after one big game,
he never played again.
It was in the Opera House that it occurred, and for an hour it had
seemed that he could not place his money on a card without making
the card a winner.  In the lull at the end of a deal, while the
game-keeper was shuffling the deck, Nick Inwood the owner of the
game, remarked, apropos of nothing:-
"I say, Pentfield, I see that partner of yours has been cutting up
monkey-shines on the outside."
"Trust Corry to have a good time," Pentfield had answered;
"especially when he has earned it."
"Every man to his taste," Nick Inwood laughed; "but I should
scarcely call getting married a good time."
"Corry married!" Pentfield cried, incredulous and yet surprised out
of himself for the moment.
'Sure," Inwood said.  "I saw it in the 'Frisco paper that came in
over the ice this morning."
"Well, and who's the girl?" Pentfield demanded, somewhat with the
air of patient fortitude with which one takes the bait of a catch
and is aware at the time of the large laugh bound to follow at his
expense.
