He moved his finger-tips, which up to that had merely rested, along the
surface, and felt the whole gigantic sphere quicken and live and respond.
It was incredible!  So light a touch on so vast a mass!  Yet did it
quiver under the finger-tip caress in rhythmic vibrations that became
whisperings and rustlings and mutterings of sound—but of sound so
different; so elusively thin that it was shimmeringly sibilant; so mellow
that it was maddening sweet, piping like an elfin horn, which last was
just what Bassett decided would be like a peal from some bell of the gods
reaching earthward from across space.
He looked at Balatta with swift questioning; but the voice of the Red One
he had evoked had flung her face downward and moaning among the bones.
He returned to contemplation of the prodigy.  Hollow it was, and of no
metal known on earth, was his conclusion.  It was right-named by the ones
of old-time as the Star-Born.  Only from the stars could it have come,
and no thing of chance was it.  It was a creation of artifice and mind.
Such perfection of form, such hollowness that it certainly possessed,
could not be the result of mere fortuitousness.  A child of
intelligences, remote and unguessable, working corporally in metals, it
indubitably was.  He stared at it in amaze, his brain a racing wild-fire
of hypotheses to account for this far-journeyer who had adventured the
night of space, threaded the stars, and now rose before him and above
him, exhumed by patient anthropophagi, pitted and lacquered by its fiery
bath in two atmospheres.
But was the colour a lacquer of heat upon some familiar metal?  Or was it
an intrinsic quality of the metal itself?  He thrust in the blue-point of
his pocket-knife to test the constitution of the stuff.  Instantly the
entire sphere burst into a mighty whispering, sharp with protest, almost
twanging goldenly, if a whisper could possibly be considered to twang,
rising higher, sinking deeper, the two extremes of the registry of sound
threatening to complete the circle and coalesce into the bull-mouthed
thundering he had so often heard beyond the taboo distance.
Forgetful of safety, of his own life itself, entranced by the wonder of
the unthinkable and unguessable thing, he raised his knife to strike
heavily from a long stroke, but was prevented by Balatta.  She upreared
on her own knees in an agony of terror, clasping his knees and
supplicating him to desist.  In the intensity of her desire to impress
him, she put her forearm between her teeth and sank them to the bone.
He scarcely observed her act, although he yielded automatically to his
gentler instincts and withheld the knife-hack.  To him, human life had
dwarfed to microscopic proportions before this colossal portent of higher
life from within the distances of the sidereal universe.  As had she been
a dog, he kicked the ugly little bushwoman to her feet and compelled her
to start with him on an encirclement of the base.  Part way around, he
encountered horrors.  Even, among the others, did he recognize the
sun-shrivelled remnant of the nine-years girl who had accidentally broken
Chief Vngngn’s personality taboo.  And, among what was left of these that
had passed, he encountered what was left of one who had not yet passed.
Truly had the bush-folk named themselves into the name of the Red One,
seeing in him their own image which they strove to placate and please
with such red offerings.
