As we started to leave the building and hunt for a seat, a small woman,
possibly thirty years of age, with a washed-out complexion of the
farmer’s wife sort, darted up to him in a bird-like way, for all the
world like the darting veering gulls over our heads and fastened herself
to his arm with the accuracy and dispatch and inevitableness of a piece
of machinery.
“There you go!” she shrilled.  “A-trottin’ right off and never givin’ me
a thought.”
I was formally introduced to her.  It was patent that she had never heard
of me, and she surveyed me bleakly with shrewd black eyes, set close
together and as beady and restless as a bird’s.
“You ain’t goin’ to tell him about that hussy?” she complained.
“Well, now, Sarah, this is business, you see,” he argued plaintively.
“I’ve been lookin’ for a likely man this long while, and now that he’s
shown up it seems to me I got a right to give him the hang of what
happened.”
The small woman made no reply, but set her thin lips in a needle-like
line.  She gazed straight before her at the Tower of Jewels with so
austere an expression that no glint of refracted sunlight could soften
it.  We proceeded slowly to the lagoon, managed to obtain an unoccupied
seat, and sat down with mutual sighs of relief as we released our weights
from our tortured sightseeing feet.
“One does get so mortal weary,” asserted the small woman, almost
defiantly.
Two swans waddled up from the mirroring water and investigated us.  When
their suspicions of our niggardliness or lack of peanuts had been
confirmed, Jones half-turned his back on his life-partner and gave me his
story.
“Ever been in Ecuador?  Then take my advice—and don’t.  Though I take
that back, for you and me might be hitting it for there together if you
can rustle up the faith in me and the backbone in yourself for the trip.
Well, anyway, it ain’t so many years ago that I came ambling in there on
a rusty, foul-bottomed, tramp collier from Australia, forty-three days
from land to land.  Seven knots was her speed when everything favoured,
and we’d had a two weeks’ gale to the north’ard of New Zealand, and broke
our engines down for two days off Pitcairn Island.
“I was no sailor on her.  I’m a locomotive engineer.  But I’d made
friends with the skipper at Newcastle an’ come along as his guest for as
far as Guayaquil.  You see, I’d heard wages was ’way up on the American
railroad runnin’ from that place over the Andes to Quito.  Now
Guayaquil—”
“Is a fever-hole,” I interpolated.
Julian Jones nodded.
“Thomas Nast died there of it within a month after he landed.—He was our
great American cartoonist,” I added.
“Don’t know him,” Julian Jones said shortly.  “But I do know he wasn’t
the first to pass out by a long shot.  Why, look you the way I found it.
The pilot grounds is sixty miles down the river.  ‘How’s the fever?’ said
I to the pilot who came aboard in the early morning.  ‘See that Hamburg
barque,’ said he, pointing to a sizable ship at anchor.  ‘Captain and
fourteen men dead of it already, and the cook and two men dying right
now, and they’re the last left of her.’
