Don't you see?  Our truth, the very truth we told, was our damnation.
When forty men told the same things with such unanimity, Warden Atherton
and Captain Jamie could only conclude that the testimony was a memorized
lie which each of the forty rattled off parrot-like.
From the standpoint of the authorities, their situation was as desperate
as ours.  As I learned afterward, the Board of Prison Directors had been
summoned by telegraph, and two companies of state militia were being
rushed to the prison.
It was winter weather, and the frost is sometimes shrewd even in a
California winter.  We had no blankets in the dungeons.  Please know that
it is very cold to stretch bruised human flesh on frosty stone.  In the
end they did give us water.  Jeering and cursing us, the guards ran in
the fire-hoses and played the fierce streams on us, dungeon by dungeon,
hour after hour, until our bruised flesh was battered all anew by the
violence with which the water smote us, until we stood knee-deep in the
water which we had raved for and for which now we raved to cease.
I shall skip the rest of what happened in the dungeons.  In passing I
shall merely state that no one of those forty lifers was ever the same
again.  Luigi Polazzo never recovered his reason.  Long Bill Hodge slowly
lost his sanity, so that a year later, he, too, went to live in Bughouse
Alley.  Oh, and others followed Hodge and Polazzo; and others, whose
physical stamina had been impaired, fell victims to prison-tuberculosis.
Fully 25 per cent. of the forty have died in the succeeding six years.
After my five years in solitary, when they took me away from San Quentin
for my trial, I saw Skysail Jack.  I could see little, for I was blinking
in the sunshine like a bat, after five years of darkness; yet I saw
enough of Skysail Jack to pain my heart.  It was in crossing the Prison
Yard that I saw him.  His hair had turned white.  He was prematurely old.
His chest had caved in.  His cheeks were sunken.  His hands shook as with
palsy.  He tottered as he walked.  And his eyes blurred with tears as he
recognized me, for I, too, was a sad wreck of what had once been a man.  I
weighed eighty-seven pounds.  My hair, streaked with gray, was a five-
years' growth, as were my beard and moustache.  And I, too, tottered as I
walked, so that the guards helped to lead me across that sun-blinding
patch of yard.  And Skysail Jack and I peered and knew each other under
the wreckage.
Men such as he are privileged, even in a prison, so that he dared an
infraction of the rules by speaking to me in a cracked and quavering
voice.
"You're a good one, Standing," he cackled.  "You never squealed."
"But I never knew, Jack," I whispered back--I was compelled to whisper,
for five years of disuse had well-nigh lost me my voice.  "I don't think
there ever was any dynamite."
