“And the crowd—there was five thousand of them—wanted to get ferried
across, and the ferry was at the bottom of the river, which wasn’t our
fault.  But by the Spiggoty arithmetic, it was.  ‘Kill the Gringos!’
shouts one of them.  And right there the beans were spilled.  Most of us
got away by the skin of our teeth.  I raced on the heels of the Master
Mechanic, carrying one of his babies for him, for the locomotives that
was just pulling out.  You see, way down there away from everywhere they
just got to save their locomotives in times of trouble, because, without
them, a railroad can’t be run.  Half a dozen American wives and as many
children were crouching on the cab floors along with the rest of us when
we pulled out; and the Ecuadoriano soldiers, who should have been
protecting our lives and property, turned loose with their rifles and
must have given us all of a thousand rounds before we got out of range.
“We camped up country and didn’t come back to clean up until next day.
It was some cleaning.  Every flat-car, box-car, coach, asthmatic switch
engine, and even hand-car that mob of Spiggoties had shoved off the dock
into sixty feet of water on top of the _Governor Hancock_.  They’d burnt
the round house, set fire to the coal bunkers, and made a scandal of the
repair shops.  Oh, yes, and there were three of our fellows they’d got
that we had to bury mighty quick.  It’s hot weather all the time down
there.”
Julian Jones came to a full pause and over his shoulder studied the
straight-before-her gaze and forbidding expression of his wife’s face.
“I ain’t forgotten the nugget,” he assured me.
“Nor the hussy,” the little woman snapped, apparently at the mud-hens
paddling on the surface of the lagoon.
“I’ve been travelling toward the nugget right along—”
“There was never no reason for you to stay in that dangerous country,”
his wife snapped in on him.
“Now, Sarah,” he appealed.  “I was working for you right along.”  And to
me he explained: “The risk was big, but so was the pay.  Some months I
earned as high as five hundred gold.  And here was Sarah waiting for me
back in Nebraska—”
“An’ us engaged two years,” she complained to the Tower of Jewels.
“—What of the strike, and me being blacklisted, and getting typhoid down
in Australia, and everything,” he went on.  “And luck was with me on that
railroad.  Why, I saw fellows fresh from the States pass out, some of
them not a week on their first run.  If the diseases and the railroad
didn’t get them, then it was the Spiggoties got them.  But it just wasn’t
my fate, even that time I rode my engine down to the bottom of a
forty-foot washout.  I lost my fireman; and the conductor and the
Superintendent of Rolling Stock (who happened to be running down to Duran
to meet his bride) had their heads knifed off by the Spiggoties and
paraded around on poles.  But I lay snug as a bug under a couple of feet
of tender coal, and they thought I’d headed for tall timber—lay there a
day and a night till the excitement cooled down.  Yes, I was lucky.  The
worst that happened to me was I caught a cold once, and another time had
a carbuncle.  But the other fellows!  They died like flies, what of
Yellow Jack, pneumonia, the Spiggoties, and the railroad.  The trouble
was I didn’t have much chance to pal with them.  No sooner’d I get some
intimate with one of them he’d up and die—all but a fireman named
Andrews, and he went loco for keeps.
