"But, Richard," she smiled seriously to him; "it is not the servants
who will determine my happiness here. It is you."
"I'll do my best," he said graciously. "Better than that. I'm sorry I
came in late for dinner. In years and years you'll never see me late
again. I won't bother you at all. You'll see. It will be just as though
I wasn't in the house."
When he bade her good night, on his way to bed, he added, as a last
thought:
"I'll warn you of one thing: Ah Sing. He's the cook. He's been in our
house for years and years--oh, I don't know, maybe twenty-five or
thirty years he's cooked for father, from long before this house was
built or I was born. He's privileged. He's so used to having his own
way that you'll have to handle him with gloves. But once he likes you
he'll work his fool head off to please you. He likes me that way. You
get him to like you, and you'll have the time of your life here. And,
honest, I won't give you any trouble at all. It'll be a regular snap,
just as if I wasn't here at all."
CHAPTER V
 AT nine in the evening, sharp to the second, clad in his oldest
clothes, Young Dick met Tim Hagan at the Ferry Building.
"No use headin' north," said Tim. "Winter'll come on up that way and
make the sleepin' crimpy. D'ye want to go East--that means Nevada and
the deserts."
"Any other way?" queried Young Dick. "What's the matter with south? We
can head for Los Angeles, an' Arizona, an' New Mexico--oh, an' Texas."
"How much money you got?" Tim demanded.
"What for?" Young Dick countered.
"We gotta get out quick, an' payin' our way at the start is quickest.
Me--I'm all hunkydory; but you ain't. The folks that's lookin' after
you'll raise a roar. They'll have more detectives out than you can
shake at stick at. We gotta dodge 'em, that's what."
"Then we will dodge," said Young Dick. "We'll make short jumps this way
and that for a couple of days, layin' low most of the time, paying our
way, until we can get to Tracy. Then we'll quit payin' an' beat her
south."
All of which program was carefully carried out. They eventually went
through Tracy as pay passengers, six hours after the local deputy
sheriff had given up his task of searching the trains. With an excess
of precaution Young Dick paid beyond Tracy and as far as Modesto. After
that, under the teaching of Tim, he traveled without paying, riding
blind baggage, box cars, and cow-catchers. Young Dick bought the
newspapers, and frightened Tim by reading to him the lurid accounts of
the kidnapping of the young heir to the Forrest millions.
Back in San Francisco the Board of Guardians offered rewards that
totaled thirty thousand dollars for the recovery of their ward. And Tim
Hagan, reading the same while they lay in the grass by some water-tank,
branded forever the mind of Young Dick with the fact that honor beyond
price was a matter of neither place nor caste and might outcrop in the
palace on the height of land or in the dwelling over a grocery down on
the flat.
