The four of us were in the one box, guests of Luis Cervallos. I was next
to the Presidente's box. On the other side was the box of General Jose
Eliceo Salazar. With him were Joaquin Endara and Urcisino Castillo,
both generals, and Colonel Jacinto Fierro and Captain Baltazar de
Echeverria. Only Luis Cervallos had the position and the influence
to get that box next to the Presidente. I know for a fact that the
Presidente himself expressed the desire to the management that Luis
Cervallos should have that box.
The band finished playing the national hymn of Ecuador. The procession
of the toreadors was over. The Presidente nodded to begin. The bugles
blew, and the bull dashed in--you know the way, excited, bewildered, the
darts in its shoulder burning like fire, itself seeking madly whatever
enemy to destroy. The toreadors hid behind their shelters and waited.
Suddenly they appeared forth, the capadores, five of them, from every
side, their colored capes flinging wide. The bull paused at sight of
such a generosity of enemies, unable in his own mind to know which to
attack. Then advanced one of the capadors alone to meet the bull. The
bull was very angry. With its fore-legs it pawed the sand of the arena
till the dust rose all about it. Then it charged, with lowered head,
straight for the lone capador.
It is always of interest, the first charge of the first bull. After a
time it is natural that one should grow tired, trifle, that the keenness
should lose its edge. But that first charge of the first bull! John
Harned was seeing it for the first time, and he could not escape the
excitement--the sight of the man, armed only with a piece of cloth,
and of the bull rushing upon him across the sand with sharp horns,
widespreading.
"See!" cried Maria Valenzuela. "Is it not superb?"
John Harned nodded, but did not look at her. His eyes were sparkling,
and they were only for the bull-ring. The capador stepped to the side,
with a twirl of the cape eluding the bull and spreading the cape on his
own shoulders.
"What do you think?" asked Maria Venzuela. "Is it not
a--what-you-call--sporting proposition--no?"
"It is certainly," said John Harned. "It is very clever."
She clapped her hands with delight. They were little hands. The audience
applauded. The bull turned and came back. Again the capadore eluded him,
throwing the cape on his shoulders, and again the audience applauded.
Three times did this happen. The capadore was very excellent. Then he
retired, and the other capadore played with the bull. After that they
placed the banderillos in the bull, in the shoulders, on each side of
the back-bone, two at a time. Then stepped forward Ordonez, the chief
matador, with the long sword and the scarlet cape. The bugles blew for
the death. He is not so good as Matestini. Still he is good, and with
one thrust he drove the sword to the heart, and the bull doubled his
legs under him and lay down and died. It was a pretty thrust, clean and
sure; and there was much applause, and many of the common people threw
their hats into the ring. Maria Valenzuela clapped her hands with the
rest, and John Harned, whose cold heart was not touched by the event,
looked at her with curiosity.
