Labor combines into its unions, capital into partnerships, associations,
corporations, and trusts.  A group-struggle is the result, in which the
individuals, as individuals, play no part.  The Brotherhood of Carpenters
and Joiners, for instance, serves notice on the Master Builders'
Association that it demands an increase of the wage of its members from
$3.50 a day to $4, and a Saturday half-holiday without pay.  This means
that the carpenters are trying to give less for more.  Where they
received $21 for six full days, they are endeavoring to get $22 for five
days and a half,--that is, they will work half a day less each week and
receive a dollar more.
Also, they expect the Saturday half-holiday to give work to one
additional man for each eleven previously employed.  This last affords a
splendid example of the development of the group idea.  In this
particular struggle the individual has no chance at all for life.  The
individual carpenter would be crushed like a mote by the Master Builders'
Association, and like a mote the individual master builder would be
crushed by the Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners.
In the group-struggle over the division of the joint product, labor
utilizes the union with its two great weapons, the strike and the
boycott; while capital utilizes the trust and the association, the
weapons of which are the black-list, the lockout, and the scab.  The scab
is by far the most formidable weapon of the three.  He is the man who
breaks strikes and causes all the trouble.  Without him there would be no
trouble, for the strikers are willing to remain out peacefully and
indefinitely so long as other men are not in their places, and so long as
the particular aggregation of capital with which they are fighting is
eating its head off in enforced idleness.
But both warring groups have reserve weapons.  Were it not for the scab,
these weapons would not be brought into play.  But the scab takes the
place of the striker, who begins at once to wield a most powerful weapon,
terrorism.  The will "to live" of the scab recoils from the menace of
broken bones and violent death.  With all due respect to the labor
leaders, who are not to be blamed for volubly asseverating otherwise,
terrorism is a well-defined and eminently successful policy of the labor
unions.  It has probably won them more strikes than all the rest of the
weapons in their arsenal.  This terrorism, however, must be clearly
understood.  It is directed solely against the scab, placing him in such
fear for life and limb as to drive him out of the contest.  But when
terrorism gets out of hand and inoffensive non-combatants are injured,
law and order threatened, and property destroyed, it becomes an edged
tool that cuts both ways.  This sort of terrorism is sincerely deplored
by the labor leaders, for it has probably lost them as many strikes as
have been lost by any other single cause.
The scab is powerless under terrorism.  As a rule, he is not so good nor
gritty a man as the men he is displacing, and he lacks their fighting
organization.  He stands in dire need of stiffening and backing.  His
employers, the capitalists, draw their two remaining weapons, the
ownership of which is debatable, but which they for the time being happen
to control.  These two weapons may be called the political and judicial
machinery of society.  When the scab crumples up and is ready to go down
before the fists, bricks, and bullets of the labor group, the capitalist
group puts the police and soldiers into the field, and begins a general
bombardment of injunctions.  Victory usually follows, for the labor group
cannot withstand the combined assault of gatling guns and injunctions.
