At such times, confronted by three sets of savage teeth, the young wolf
stopped precipitately, throwing himself back on his haunches, with fore-
legs stiff, mouth menacing, and mane bristling.  This confusion in the
front of the moving pack always caused confusion in the rear.  The wolves
behind collided with the young wolf and expressed their displeasure by
administering sharp nips on his hind-legs and flanks.  He was laying up
trouble for himself, for lack of food and short tempers went together;
but with the boundless faith of youth he persisted in repeating the
manoeuvre every little while, though it never succeeded in gaining
anything for him but discomfiture.
Had there been food, love-making and fighting would have gone on apace,
and the pack-formation would have been broken up.  But the situation of
the pack was desperate.  It was lean with long-standing hunger.  It ran
below its ordinary speed.  At the rear limped the weak members, the very
young and the very old.  At the front were the strongest.  Yet all were
more like skeletons than full-bodied wolves.  Nevertheless, with the
exception of the ones that limped, the movements of the animals were
effortless and tireless.  Their stringy muscles seemed founts of
inexhaustible energy.  Behind every steel-like contraction of a muscle,
lay another steel-like contraction, and another, and another, apparently
without end.
They ran many miles that day.  They ran through the night.  And the next
day found them still running.  They were running over the surface of a
world frozen and dead.  No life stirred.  They alone moved through the
vast inertness.  They alone were alive, and they sought for other things
that were alive in order that they might devour them and continue to
live.
They crossed low divides and ranged a dozen small streams in a
lower-lying country before their quest was rewarded.  Then they came upon
moose.  It was a big bull they first found.  Here was meat and life, and
it was guarded by no mysterious fires nor flying missiles of flame.  Splay
hoofs and palmated antlers they knew, and they flung their customary
patience and caution to the wind.  It was a brief fight and fierce.  The
big bull was beset on every side.  He ripped them open or split their
skulls with shrewdly driven blows of his great hoofs.  He crushed them
and broke them on his large horns.  He stamped them into the snow under
him in the wallowing struggle.  But he was foredoomed, and he went down
with the she-wolf tearing savagely at his throat, and with other teeth
fixed everywhere upon him, devouring him alive, before ever his last
struggles ceased or his last damage had been wrought.
There was food in plenty.  The bull weighed over eight hundred
pounds--fully twenty pounds of meat per mouth for the forty-odd wolves of
the pack.  But if they could fast prodigiously, they could feed
prodigiously, and soon a few scattered bones were all that remained of
the splendid live brute that had faced the pack a few hours before.
