There was now much resting and sleeping.  With full stomachs, bickering
and quarrelling began among the younger males, and this continued through
the few days that followed before the breaking-up of the pack.  The
famine was over.  The wolves were now in the country of game, and though
they still hunted in pack, they hunted more cautiously, cutting out heavy
cows or crippled old bulls from the small moose-herds they ran across.
There came a day, in this land of plenty, when the wolf-pack split in
half and went in different directions.  The she-wolf, the young leader on
her left, and the one-eyed elder on her right, led their half of the pack
down to the Mackenzie River and across into the lake country to the east.
Each day this remnant of the pack dwindled.  Two by two, male and female,
the wolves were deserting.  Occasionally a solitary male was driven out
by the sharp teeth of his rivals.  In the end there remained only four:
the she-wolf, the young leader, the one-eyed one, and the ambitious three-
year-old.
The she-wolf had by now developed a ferocious temper.  Her three suitors
all bore the marks of her teeth.  Yet they never replied in kind, never
defended themselves against her.  They turned their shoulders to her most
savage slashes, and with wagging tails and mincing steps strove to
placate her wrath.  But if they were all mildness toward her, they were
all fierceness toward one another.  The three-year-old grew too ambitious
in his fierceness.  He caught the one-eyed elder on his blind side and
ripped his ear into ribbons.  Though the grizzled old fellow could see
only on one side, against the youth and vigour of the other he brought
into play the wisdom of long years of experience.  His lost eye and his
scarred muzzle bore evidence to the nature of his experience.  He had
survived too many battles to be in doubt for a moment about what to do.
The battle began fairly, but it did not end fairly.  There was no telling
what the outcome would have been, for the third wolf joined the elder,
and together, old leader and young leader, they attacked the ambitious
three-year-old and proceeded to destroy him.  He was beset on either side
by the merciless fangs of his erstwhile comrades.  Forgotten were the
days they had hunted together, the game they had pulled down, the famine
they had suffered.  That business was a thing of the past.  The business
of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of
food-getting.
And in the meanwhile, the she-wolf, the cause of it all, sat down
contentedly on her haunches and watched.  She was even pleased.  This was
her day--and it came not often--when manes bristled, and fang smote fang
or ripped and tore the yielding flesh, all for the possession of her.
And in the business of love the three-year-old, who had made this his
first adventure upon it, yielded up his life.  On either side of his body
stood his two rivals.  They were gazing at the she-wolf, who sat smiling
in the snow.  But the elder leader was wise, very wise, in love even as
in battle.  The younger leader turned his head to lick a wound on his
shoulder.  The curve of his neck was turned toward his rival.  With his
one eye the elder saw the opportunity.  He darted in low and closed with
his fangs.  It was a long, ripping slash, and deep as well.  His teeth,
in passing, burst the wall of the great vein of the throat.  Then he
leaped clear.
