"Look here, Henry," Bill said, unconsciously lowering his voice to a
whisper because of what he imitated.  "We've got three cartridges.  But
it's a dead shot.  Couldn't miss it.  It's got away with three of our
dogs, an' we oughter put a stop to it.  What d'ye say?"
Henry nodded his consent.  Bill cautiously slipped the gun from under the
sled-lashing.  The gun was on the way to his shoulder, but it never got
there.  For in that instant the she-wolf leaped sidewise from the trail
into the clump of spruce trees and disappeared.
The two men looked at each other.  Henry whistled long and
comprehendingly.
"I might have knowed it," Bill chided himself aloud as he replaced the
gun.  "Of course a wolf that knows enough to come in with the dogs at
feedin' time, 'd know all about shooting-irons.  I tell you right now,
Henry, that critter's the cause of all our trouble.  We'd have six dogs
at the present time, 'stead of three, if it wasn't for her.  An' I tell
you right now, Henry, I'm goin' to get her.  She's too smart to be shot
in the open.  But I'm goin' to lay for her.  I'll bushwhack her as sure
as my name is Bill."
"You needn't stray off too far in doin' it," his partner admonished.  "If
that pack ever starts to jump you, them three cartridges'd be wuth no
more'n three whoops in hell.  Them animals is damn hungry, an' once they
start in, they'll sure get you, Bill."
They camped early that night.  Three dogs could not drag the sled so fast
nor for so long hours as could six, and they were showing unmistakable
signs of playing out.  And the men went early to bed, Bill first seeing
to it that the dogs were tied out of gnawing-reach of one another.
But the wolves were growing bolder, and the men were aroused more than
once from their sleep.  So near did the wolves approach, that the dogs
became frantic with terror, and it was necessary to replenish the fire
from time to time in order to keep the adventurous marauders at safer
distance.
"I've hearn sailors talk of sharks followin' a ship," Bill remarked, as
he crawled back into the blankets after one such replenishing of the
fire.  "Well, them wolves is land sharks.  They know their business
better'n we do, an' they ain't a-holdin' our trail this way for their
health.  They're goin' to get us.  They're sure goin' to get us, Henry."
"They've half got you a'ready, a-talkin' like that," Henry retorted
sharply.  "A man's half licked when he says he is.  An' you're half eaten
from the way you're goin' on about it."
"They've got away with better men than you an' me," Bill answered.
"Oh, shet up your croakin'.  You make me all-fired tired."
Henry rolled over angrily on his side, but was surprised that Bill made
no similar display of temper.  This was not Bill's way, for he was easily
angered by sharp words.  Henry thought long over it before he went to
sleep, and as his eyelids fluttered down and he dozed off, the thought in
his mind was: "There's no mistakin' it, Bill's almighty blue.  I'll have
to cheer him up to-morrow."
