EDWARD, afterwards called by the monks THE CONFESSOR, succeeded; and his
first act was to oblige his mother Emma, who had favoured him so little,
to retire into the country; where she died some ten years afterwards.  He
was the exiled prince whose brother Alfred had been so foully killed.  He
had been invited over from Normandy by Hardicanute, in the course of his
short reign of two years, and had been handsomely treated at court.  His
cause was now favoured by the powerful Earl Godwin, and he was soon made
King.  This Earl had been suspected by the people, ever since Prince
Alfred's cruel death; he had even been tried in the last reign for the
Prince's murder, but had been pronounced not guilty; chiefly, as it was
supposed, because of a present he had made to the swinish King, of a
gilded ship with a figure-head of solid gold, and a crew of eighty
splendidly armed men.  It was his interest to help the new King with his
power, if the new King would help him against the popular distrust and
hatred.  So they made a bargain.  Edward the Confessor got the Throne.
The Earl got more power and more land, and his daughter Editha was made
queen; for it was a part of their compact that the King should take her
for his wife.
But, although she was a gentle lady, in all things worthy to be
beloved--good, beautiful, sensible, and kind--the King from the first
neglected her.  Her father and her six proud brothers, resenting this
cold treatment, harassed the King greatly by exerting all their power to
make him unpopular.  Having lived so long in Normandy, he preferred the
Normans to the English.  He made a Norman Archbishop, and Norman Bishops;
his great officers and favourites were all Normans; he introduced the
Norman fashions and the Norman language; in imitation of the state custom
of Normandy, he attached a great seal to his state documents, instead of
merely marking them, as the Saxon Kings had done, with the sign of the
cross--just as poor people who have never been taught to write, now make
the same mark for their names.  All this, the powerful Earl Godwin and
his six proud sons represented to the people as disfavour shown towards
the English; and thus they daily increased their own power, and daily
diminished the power of the King.
They were greatly helped by an event that occurred when he had reigned
eight years.  Eustace, Earl of Bologne, who had married the King's
sister, came to England on a visit.  After staying at the court some
time, he set forth, with his numerous train of attendants, to return
home.  They were to embark at Dover.  Entering that peaceful town in
armour, they took possession of the best houses, and noisily demanded to
be lodged and entertained without payment.  One of the bold men of Dover,
who would not endure to have these domineering strangers jingling their
heavy swords and iron corselets up and down his house, eating his meat
and drinking his strong liquor, stood in his doorway and refused
admission to the first armed man who came there.  The armed man drew, and
wounded him.  The man of Dover struck the armed man dead.  Intelligence
of what he had done, spreading through the streets to where the Count
Eustace and his men were standing by their horses, bridle in hand, they
passionately mounted, galloped to the house, surrounded it, forced their
way in (the doors and windows being closed when they came up), and killed
the man of Dover at his own fireside.  They then clattered through the
streets, cutting down and riding over men, women, and children.  This did
not last long, you may believe.  The men of Dover set upon them with
great fury, killed nineteen of the foreigners, wounded many more, and,
blockading the road to the port so that they should not embark, beat them
out of the town by the way they had come.  Hereupon, Count Eustace rides
as hard as man can ride to Gloucester, where Edward is, surrounded by
Norman monks and Norman lords.  'Justice!' cries the Count, 'upon the men
of Dover, who have set upon and slain my people!'  The King sends
immediately for the powerful Earl Godwin, who happens to be near; reminds
him that Dover is under his government; and orders him to repair to Dover
and do military execution on the inhabitants.  'It does not become you,'
says the proud Earl in reply, 'to condemn without a hearing those whom
you have sworn to protect.  I will not do it.'
