John Willet was so amazed by the exasperation and boldness of his
hopeful son, that he sat as one bewildered, staring in a ludicrous
manner at the boiler, and endeavouring, but quite ineffectually, to
collect his tardy thoughts, and invent an answer. The guests, scarcely
less disturbed, were equally at a loss; and at length, with a variety
of muttered, half-expressed condolences, and pieces of advice, rose to
depart; being at the same time slightly muddled with liquor.
The honest locksmith alone addressed a few words of coherent and
sensible advice to both parties, urging John Willet to remember that
Joe was nearly arrived at man's estate, and should not be ruled with
too tight a hand, and exhorting Joe himself to bear with his father's
caprices, and rather endeavour to turn them aside by temperate
remonstrance than by ill-timed rebellion. This advice was received as
such advice usually is. On John Willet it made almost as much impression
as on the sign outside the door, while Joe, who took it in the best
part, avowed himself more obliged than he could well express, but
politely intimated his intention nevertheless of taking his own course
uninfluenced by anybody.
'You have always been a very good friend to me, Mr Varden,' he said,
as they stood without, in the porch, and the locksmith was equipping
himself for his journey home; 'I take it very kind of you to say all
this, but the time's nearly come when the Maypole and I must part
company.'
'Roving stones gather no moss, Joe,' said Gabriel.
'Nor milestones much,' replied Joe. 'I'm little better than one here,
and see as much of the world.'
'Then, what would you do, Joe?' pursued the locksmith, stroking his chin
reflectively. 'What could you be? Where could you go, you see?'
'I must trust to chance, Mr Varden.'
'A bad thing to trust to, Joe. I don't like it. I always tell my girl
when we talk about a husband for her, never to trust to chance, but to
make sure beforehand that she has a good man and true, and then chance
will neither make her nor break her. What are you fidgeting about there,
Joe? Nothing gone in the harness, I hope?'
'No no,' said Joe--finding, however, something very engrossing to do in
the way of strapping and buckling--'Miss Dolly quite well?'
'Hearty, thankye. She looks pretty enough to be well, and good too.'
'She's always both, sir'--
'So she is, thank God!'
'I hope,' said Joe after some hesitation, 'that you won't tell this
story against me--this of my having been beat like the boy they'd make
of me--at all events, till I have met this man again and settled the
account. It'll be a better story then.'
'Why who should I tell it to?' returned Gabriel. 'They know it here, and
I'm not likely to come across anybody else who would care about it.'
'That's true enough,' said the young fellow with a sigh. 'I quite forgot
that. Yes, that's true!'
