"Why, here she is!" cried Trotty, catching her up. "Here's little
Lilian! Ha, ha, ha! Here we are and here we go. Oh, here we are and here
we go again! And here we are and here we go! And Uncle Will, too!"
Before Will Fern could make the least reply, a band of music burst into
the room, attended by a flock of neighbors, screaming, "A Happy New
Year, Meg!" "A happy wedding!" "Many of 'em!" and other fragmentary
good-wishes of that sort. The Drum (who was a private friend of
Trotty's) then stepped forward and said:
"Trotty Veck, my boy, it's got about that your daughter is going to be
married to-morrow. There ain't a soul that knows you that don't wish you
well, or that knows her and don't wish her well. Or that knows you both,
and don't wish you both all the happiness the New Year can bring. And
here we are to play it in and dance it in accordingly."
Then Mrs. Chickenstalker came in (a good-humored, nice-looking woman
who, to the delight of all, turned out to be the friend of Lilian's
mother, for whom Will Fern had come to look), with a stone pitcher full
of "flip," to wish Meg joy, and then the music struck up, and Trotty,
making Meg and Richard second couple, led off Mrs. Chickenstalker down
the dance, and danced it in a step unknown before or since, founded on
his own peculiar trot.
II.
TINY TIM.
IT will surprise you all very much to hear that there was once a man who
did not like Christmas. In fact, he had been heard on several occasions
to use the word _humbug_ with regard to it. His name was Scrooge, and he
was a hard, sour-tempered man of business, intent only on saving and
making money, and caring nothing for anyone. He paid the poor,
hard-working clerk in his office as little as he could possibly get the
work done for, and lived on as little as possible himself, alone, in two
dismal rooms. He was never merry or comfortable or happy, and he hated
other people to be so, and that was the reason why he hated Christmas,
because people _will_ be happy at Christmas, you know, if they possibly
can, and like to have a little money to make themselves and others
comfortable.
Well, it was Christmas eve, a very cold and foggy one, and Mr. Scrooge,
having given his poor clerk permission very unwillingly to spend
Christmas day at home, locked up his office and went home himself in a
very bad temper, and with a cold in his head. After having taken some
gruel as he sat over a miserable fire in his dismal room, he got into
bed, and had some wonderful and disagreeable dreams, to which we will
leave him, whilst we see how Tiny Tim, the son of his poor clerk, spent
Christmas day.
The name of this clerk was Bob Cratchit. He had a wife and five other
children besides Tim, who was a weak and delicate little cripple, and
for this reason was dearly loved by his father and the rest of the
family; not but what he was a dear little boy, too, gentle and patient
and loving, with a sweet face of his own, which no one could help
looking at.
