Little Paul Dombey's foster-mother had led this life herself, and had
carried little Paul through it for some weeks; and had returned upstairs
one day from a melancholy saunter through the dreary rooms of state (she
never went out without Mrs Chick, who called on fine mornings, usually
accompanied by Miss Tox, to take her and Baby for an airing--or in other
words, to march them gravely up and down the pavement, like a walking
funeral); when, as she was sitting in her own room, the door was slowly
and quietly opened, and a dark-eyed little girl looked in.
'It's Miss Florence come home from her aunt's, no doubt,' thought
Richards, who had never seen the child before. 'Hope I see you well,
Miss.'
'Is that my brother?' asked the child, pointing to the Baby.
'Yes, my pretty,' answered Richards. 'Come and kiss him.'
But the child, instead of advancing, looked her earnestly in the face,
and said:
'What have you done with my Mama?'
'Lord bless the little creeter!' cried Richards, 'what a sad question! I
done? Nothing, Miss.'
'What have they done with my Mama?' inquired the child, with exactly the
same look and manner.
'I never saw such a melting thing in all my life!' said Richards, who
naturally substituted for this child one of her own, inquiring for
herself in like circumstances. 'Come nearer here, my dear Miss! Don't be
afraid of me.'
'I am not afraid of you,' said the child, drawing nearer. 'But I want to
know what they have done with my Mama.'
Her heart swelled so as she stood before the woman, looking into her
eyes, that she was fain to press her little hand upon her breast and
hold it there. Yet there was a purpose in the child that prevented both
her slender figure and her searching gaze from faltering.
'My darling,' said Richards, 'you wear that pretty black frock in
remembrance of your Mama.'
'I can remember my Mama,' returned the child, with tears springing to
her eyes, 'in any frock.'
'But people put on black, to remember people when they're gone.'
'Where gone?' asked the child.
'Come and sit down by me,' said Richards, 'and I'll tell you a story.'
With a quick perception that it was intended to relate to what she had
asked, little Florence laid aside the bonnet she had held in her hand
until now, and sat down on a stool at the Nurse's feet, looking up into
her face.
'Once upon a time,' said Richards, 'there was a lady--a very good lady,
and her little daughter dearly loved her.'
'A very good lady and her little daughter dearly loved her,' repeated
the child.
'Who, when God thought it right that it should be so, was taken ill and
died.'
The child shuddered.
'Died, never to be seen again by anyone on earth, and was buried in the
ground where the trees grow.'
'The cold ground?' said the child, shuddering again.
'No! The warm ground,' returned Polly, seizing her advantage, 'where the
ugly little seeds turn into beautiful flowers, and into grass, and corn,
and I don't know what all besides. Where good people turn into bright
angels, and fly away to Heaven!'
