The Lord Mayor elect thought of this, and turning to the stranger, and
sternly bidding him ‘go out of his private counting-house,’ brought
forward the three hundred and seventy-two fat capons, and went on with
his account.
‘Do you remember,’ said the other, stepping forward,—‘_do_ you remember
little Joe Toddyhigh?’
The port wine fled for a moment from the fruiterer’s nose as he muttered,
‘Joe Toddyhigh!  What about Joe Toddyhigh?’
‘_I_ am Joe Toddyhigh,’ cried the visitor.  ‘Look at me, look hard at
me,—harder, harder.  You know me now?  You know little Joe again?  What a
happiness to us both, to meet the very night before your grandeur!  O!
give me your hand, Jack,—both hands,—both, for the sake of old times.’
‘You pinch me, sir.  You’re a-hurting of me,’ said the Lord Mayor elect
pettishly.  ‘Don’t,—suppose anybody should come,—Mr. Toddyhigh, sir.’
‘Mr. Toddyhigh!’ repeated the other ruefully.
‘O, don’t bother,’ said the Lord Mayor elect, scratching his head.  ‘Dear
me!  Why, I thought you was dead.  What a fellow you are!’
Indeed, it was a pretty state of things, and worthy the tone of vexation
and disappointment in which the Lord Mayor spoke.  Joe Toddyhigh had been
a poor boy with him at Hull, and had oftentimes divided his last penny
and parted his last crust to relieve his wants; for though Joe was a
destitute child in those times, he was as faithful and affectionate in
his friendship as ever man of might could be.  They parted one day to
seek their fortunes in different directions.  Joe went to sea, and the
now wealthy citizen begged his way to London, They separated with many
tears, like foolish fellows as they were, and agreed to remain fast
friends, and if they lived, soon to communicate again.
When he was an errand-boy, and even in the early days of his
apprenticeship, the citizen had many a time trudged to the Post-office to
ask if there were any letter from poor little Joe, and had gone home
again with tears in his eyes, when he found no news of his only friend.
The world is a wide place, and it was a long time before the letter came;
when it did, the writer was forgotten.  It turned from white to yellow
from lying in the Post-office with nobody to claim it, and in course of
time was torn up with five hundred others, and sold for waste-paper.  And
now at last, and when it might least have been expected, here was this
Joe Toddyhigh turning up and claiming acquaintance with a great public
character, who on the morrow would be cracking jokes with the Prime
Minister of England, and who had only, at any time during the next twelve
months, to say the word, and he could shut up Temple Bar, and make it no
thoroughfare for the king himself!
‘I am sure I don’t know what to say, Mr. Toddyhigh,’ said the Lord Mayor
elect; ‘I really don’t.  It’s very inconvenient.  I’d sooner have given
twenty pound,—it’s very inconvenient, really.’—A thought had come into
his mind, that perhaps his old friend might say something passionate
which would give him an excuse for being angry himself.  No such thing.
Joe looked at him steadily, but very mildly, and did not open his lips.
