The design of the people was to force Master Graham to take refuge in his
dwelling, and to defend it until the authorities could interfere, or they
could gain time for parley.  But either from ignorance or in the
confusion of the moment they stopped at his old house, which was closely
shut.  Some time was lost in beating the doors open and passing him to
the front.  About a score of the boldest of the other party threw
themselves into the torrent while this was being done, and reaching the
door at the same moment with himself cut him off from his defenders.
‘I never will turn in such a righteous cause, so help me Heaven!’ cried
Graham, in a voice that at last made itself heard, and confronting them
as he spoke.  ‘Least of all will I turn upon this threshold which owes
its desolation to such men as ye.  I give no quarter, and I will have
none!  Strike!’
For a moment they stood at bay.  At that moment a shot from an unseen
hand, apparently fired by some person who had gained access to one of the
opposite houses, struck Graham in the brain, and he fell dead.  A low
wail was heard in the air,—many people in the concourse cried that they
had seen a spirit glide across the little casement window of the Bowyer’s
house—
A dead silence succeeded.  After a short time some of the flushed and
heated throng laid down their arms and softly carried the body within
doors.  Others fell off or slunk away in knots of two or three, others
whispered together in groups, and before a numerous guard which then rode
up could muster in the street, it was nearly empty.
                    [Picture: Death of Master Graham]
Those who carried Master Graham to the bed up-stairs were shocked to see
a woman lying beneath the window with her hands clasped together.  After
trying to recover her in vain, they laid her near the citizen, who still
retained, tightly grasped in his right hand, the first and last sword
that was broken that day at Lud Gate.
                                * * * * *
The Giant uttered these concluding words with sudden precipitation; and
on the instant the strange light which had filled the hall faded away.
Joe Toddyhigh glanced involuntarily at the eastern window, and saw the
first pale gleam of morning.  He turned his head again towards the other
window in which the Giants had been seated.  It was empty.  The cask of
wine was gone, and he could dimly make out that the two great figures
stood mute and motionless upon their pedestals.
After rubbing his eyes and wondering for full half an hour, during which
time he observed morning come creeping on apace, he yielded to the
drowsiness which overpowered him and fell into a refreshing slumber.
When he awoke it was broad day; the building was open, and workmen were
busily engaged in removing the vestiges of last night’s feast.
