“What’s the matter here, my dear?” said the Jew, looking in.
“Lend a hand to the girl, can’t you?” replied Sikes impatiently, “and
don’t stand chattering and grinning at me!”
With an exclamation of surprise Fagin hastened to the girl’s
assistance, while Mr. John Dawkins (otherwise the Artful Dodger), who
had followed his venerable friend into the room, hastily deposited on
the floor a bundle with which he was laden, and, snatching a bottle
from the grasp of Master Charles Bates who came close at his heels,
uncorked it in a twinkling with his teeth, and poured a portion of its
contents down the patient’s throat; previously taking a taste himself
to prevent mistakes.
“Give her a whiff of fresh air with the bellows, Charley,” said
Mr. Dawkins; “and you slap her hands, Fagin, while Bill undoes the
petticuts.”
These united restoratives, administered with great energy, especially
that department consigned to Master Bates, who appeared to consider
his share in the proceeding a piece of unexampled pleasantry, were not
long in producing the desired effect. The girl gradually recovered
her senses, and, staggering to a chair by the bedside, hid her face
upon the pillow, leaving Mr. Sikes to confront the new-comers, in some
astonishment at their unlooked-for appearance.
“Why, what evil wind has blowed you here?” he asked of Fagin.
“No evil wind at all, my dear,” replied the Jew; “for ill winds blow
nobody any good, and I’ve brought something good with me that you’ll be
glad to see. Dodger, my dear, open the bundle, and give Bill the little
trifles that we spent all our money on this morning.”
In compliance with Mr. Fagin’s request, the Artful untied his bundle,
which was of large size, and formed of an old tablecloth, and handed
the articles it contained, one by one, to Charley Bates, who placed
them on the table, with various encomiums on their rarity and
excellence.
“Sitch a rabbit pie, Bill!” exclaimed that young gentleman, disclosing
to view a huge pasty; “sitch delicate creeturs, with sitch tender
limbs, Bill, that the wery bones melt in your mouth, and there’s no
occasion to pick ’em; half a pound of seven and sixpenny green, so
precious strong that if you mix it with boiling water, it’ll go nigh to
blow the lid of the teapot off; a pound and a half of moist sugar that
the niggers didn’t work at all at afore they got it to sitch a pitch
of goodness,—oh no! two half-quartern brans; pound of best fresh;
piece of double Glo’ster; and, to wind up all, some of the richest sort
you ever lushed.” Uttering this last panegyric, Master Bates produced
from one of his extensive pockets a full-sized wine-bottle, carefully
corked, while Mr. Dawkins at the same instant poured out a wine
glassful of raw spirits from the bottle he carried, which the invalid
tossed down his throat without a moment’s hesitation.
“Ah!” said the Jew, rubbing his hands with great satisfaction. “You’ll
do, Bill; you’ll do now.”
