“Do!” exclaimed Mr. Sikes; “I might have been done for twenty times
over, afore you’d have done any thing to help me. What do you mean by
leaving a man in this state three weeks and more, you false-hearted
wagabond?”
“Only hear him, boys!” said the Jew, shrugging his shoulders; “and us
come to bring him all these beautiful things.”
“The things is well enough in their way,” observed Mr. Sikes, a little
soothed as he glanced over the table; “but what have you got to say
for yourself why you should leave me here, down in the mouth, health,
blunt, and every thing else, and take no more notice of me all this
mortal time than if I was that ’ere dog.—Drive him down, Charley.”
“I never see such a jolly dog as that,” cried Master Bates, doing as
he was desired. “Smelling the grub like a old lady a-going to market!
He’d make his fortun on the stage that dog would, and rewive the drayma
besides.”
“Hold your din,” cried Sikes, as the dog retreated under the bed, still
growling angrily. “And what have you got to say for yourself, you
withered old fence, eh?”
“I was away from London a week and more, my dear, on a plant,” replied
the Jew.
“And what about the other fortnight?” demanded Sikes. “What about the
other fortnight that you’ve left me lying here, like a sick rat in his
hole?”
“I couldn’t help it, Bill,” replied the Jew. “I can’t go into a long
explanation before company; but I couldn’t help it, upon my honour.”
“Upon your what?” growled Sikes with excessive disgust. “Here, cut me
off a piece of the pie, one of you boys, to take the taste of that out
of my mouth, or it’ll choke me dead.”
“Don’t be out of temper, my dear,” urged the Jew submissively. “I have
never forgot you, Bill; never once.”
“No, I’ll pound it, that you han’t,” replied Sikes with a bitter grin.
“You’ve been scheming and plotting away every hour that I’ve laid
shivering and burning here; and Bill was to do this, and Bill was to do
that, and Bill was to do it all dirt cheap, as soon as he got well, and
was quite poor enough for your work. If it hadn’t been for the girl, I
might have died.”
“There now, Bill,” remonstrated the Jew, eagerly catching at the word.
“If it hadn’t been for the girl! Who was the means of your having such
a handy girl about you but me?”
“He says true enough there, God knows!” said Nancy, coming hastily
forward. “Let him be, let him be.”
Nancy’s appearance gave a new turn to the conversation, for the boys,
receiving a sly wink from the wary old Jew, began to ply her with
liquor, of which, however, she partook very sparingly; while Fagin,
assuming an unusual flow of spirits, gradually brought Mr. Sikes into a
better temper, by affecting to regard his threats as a little pleasant
banter, and, moreover, laughing very heartily at one or two rough
jokes, which, after repeated applications to the spirit-bottle, he
condescended to make.
