His great opponent in public life is Captain Purday, the old naval
officer on half-pay, to whom we have already introduced our readers.  The
captain being a determined opponent of the constituted authorities,
whoever they may chance to be, and our other friend being their steady
supporter, with an equal disregard of their individual merits, it will
readily be supposed, that occasions for their coming into direct
collision are neither few nor far between.  They divided the vestry
fourteen times on a motion for heating the church with warm water instead
of coals: and made speeches about liberty and expenditure, and
prodigality and hot water, which threw the whole parish into a state of
excitement.  Then the captain, when he was on the visiting committee, and
his opponent overseer, brought forward certain distinct and specific
charges relative to the management of the workhouse, boldly expressed his
total want of confidence in the existing authorities, and moved for 'a
copy of the recipe by which the paupers' soup was prepared, together with
any documents relating thereto.'  This the overseer steadily resisted; he
fortified himself by precedent, appealed to the established usage, and
declined to produce the papers, on the ground of the injury that would be
done to the public service, if documents of a strictly private nature,
passing between the master of the workhouse and the cook, were to be thus
dragged to light on the motion of any individual member of the vestry.
The motion was lost by a majority of two; and then the captain, who never
allows himself to be defeated, moved for a committee of inquiry into the
whole subject.  The affair grew serious: the question was discussed at
meeting after meeting, and vestry after vestry; speeches were made,
attacks repudiated, personal defiances exchanged, explanations received,
and the greatest excitement prevailed, until at last, just as the
question was going to be finally decided, the vestry found that somehow
or other, they had become entangled in a point of form, from which it was
impossible to escape with propriety.  So, the motion was dropped, and
everybody looked extremely important, and seemed quite satisfied with the
meritorious nature of the whole proceeding.
This was the state of affairs in our parish a week or two since, when
Simmons, the beadle, suddenly died.  The lamented deceased had
over-exerted himself, a day or two previously, in conveying an aged
female, highly intoxicated, to the strong room of the work-house.  The
excitement thus occasioned, added to a severe cold, which this
indefatigable officer had caught in his capacity of director of the
parish engine, by inadvertently playing over himself instead of a fire,
proved too much for a constitution already enfeebled by age; and the
intelligence was conveyed to the Board one evening that Simmons had died,
and left his respects.
The breath was scarcely out of the body of the deceased functionary, when
the field was filled with competitors for the vacant office, each of whom
rested his claims to public support, entirely on the number and extent of
his family, as if the office of beadle were originally instituted as an
encouragement for the propagation of the human species.  'Bung for
Beadle.  Five small children!'--'Hopkins for Beadle.  Seven small
children!!'--'Timkins for Beadle.  Nine small children!!!'  Such were the
placards in large black letters on a white ground, which were plentifully
pasted on the walls, and posted in the windows of the principal shops.
Timkins's success was considered certain: several mothers of families
half promised their votes, and the nine small children would have run
over the course, but for the production of another placard, announcing
the appearance of a still more meritorious candidate.  'Spruggins for
Beadle.  Ten small children (two of them twins), and a wife!!!'  There
was no resisting this; ten small children would have been almost
irresistible in themselves, without the twins, but the touching
parenthesis about that interesting production of nature, and the still
more touching allusion to Mrs. Spruggins, must ensure success.  Spruggins
was the favourite at once, and the appearance of his lady, as she went
about to solicit votes (which encouraged confident hopes of a still
further addition to the house of Spruggins at no remote period),
increased the general prepossession in his favour.  The other candidates,
Bung alone excepted, resigned in despair.  The day of election was fixed;
and the canvass proceeded with briskness and perseverance on both sides.
