'I put in a good many distresses in my time (continued Mr. Bung), and in
course I wasn't long in finding, that some people are not as much to be
pitied as others are, and that people with good incomes who get into
difficulties, which they keep patching up day after day and week after
week, get so used to these sort of things in time, that at last they come
scarcely to feel them at all.  I remember the very first place I was put
in possession of, was a gentleman's house in this parish here, that
everybody would suppose couldn't help having money if he tried.  I went
with old Fixem, my old master, 'bout half arter eight in the morning;
rang the area-bell; servant in livery opened the door: "Governor at
home?"--"Yes, he is," says the man; "but he's breakfasting just now."
"Never mind," says Fixem, "just you tell him there's a gentleman here, as
wants to speak to him partickler."  So the servant he opens his eyes, and
stares about him all ways--looking for the gentleman, as it struck me,
for I don't think anybody but a man as was stone-blind would mistake
Fixem for one; and as for me, I was as seedy as a cheap cowcumber.
Hows'ever, he turns round, and goes to the breakfast-parlour, which was a
little snug sort of room at the end of the passage, and Fixem (as we
always did in that profession), without waiting to be announced, walks in
arter him, and before the servant could get out, "Please, sir, here's a
man as wants to speak to you," looks in at the door as familiar and
pleasant as may be.  "Who the devil are you, and how dare you walk into a
gentleman's house without leave?" says the master, as fierce as a bull in
fits.  "My name," says Fixem, winking to the master to send the servant
away, and putting the warrant into his hands folded up like a note, "My
name's Smith," says he, "and I called from Johnson's about that business
of Thompson's."--"Oh," says the other, quite down on him directly, "How
_is_ Thompson?" says he; "Pray sit down, Mr. Smith: John, leave the
room."  Out went the servant; and the gentleman and Fixem looked at one
another till they couldn't look any longer, and then they varied the
amusements by looking at me, who had been standing on the mat all this
time.  "Hundred and fifty pounds, I see," said the gentleman at last.
"Hundred and fifty pound," said Fixem, "besides cost of levy, sheriff's
poundage, and all other incidental expenses."--"Um," says the gentleman,
"I shan't be able to settle this before to-morrow afternoon."--"Very
sorry; but I shall be obliged to leave my man here till then," replies
Fixem, pretending to look very miserable over it.  "That's very
unfort'nate," says the gentleman, "for I have got a large party here
to-night, and I'm ruined if those fellows of mine get an inkling of the
matter--just step here, Mr. Smith," says he, after a short pause.  So
Fixem walks with him up to the window, and after a good deal of
whispering, and a little chinking of suverins, and looking at me, he
comes back and says, "Bung, you're a handy fellow, and very honest I
know.  This gentleman wants an assistant to clean the plate and wait at
table to-day, and if you're not particularly engaged," says old Fixem,
grinning like mad, and shoving a couple of suverins into my hand, "he'll
be very glad to avail himself of your services."  Well, I laughed: and
the gentleman laughed, and we all laughed; and I went home and cleaned
myself, leaving Fixem there, and when I went back, Fixem went away, and I
polished up the plate, and waited at table, and gammoned the servants,
and nobody had the least idea I was in possession, though it very nearly
came out after all; for one of the last gentlemen who remained, came
down-stairs into the hall where I was sitting pretty late at night, and
putting half-a-crown into my hand, says, "Here, my man," says he, "run
and get me a coach, will you?"  I thought it was a do, to get me out of
the house, and was just going to say so, sulkily enough, when the
gentleman (who was up to everything) came running down-stairs, as if he
was in great anxiety.  "Bung," says he, pretending to be in a consuming
passion.  "Sir," says I.  "Why the devil an't you looking after that
plate?"--"I was just going to send him for a coach for me," says the
other gentleman.  "And I was just a-going to say," says I--"Anybody else,
my dear fellow," interrupts the master of the house, pushing me down the
passage to get out of the way--"anybody else; but I have put this man in
possession of all the plate and valuables, and I cannot allow him on any
consideration whatever, to leave the house.  Bung, you scoundrel, go and
count those forks in the breakfast-parlour instantly."  You may be sure I
went laughing pretty hearty when I found it was all right.  The money was
paid next day, with the addition of something else for myself, and that
was the best job that I (and I suspect old Fixem too) ever got in that
line.
