“God help me, Christiana!” said I.  “You speak the truth.”
“Michael!” said she, putting her hand in mine, in all maidenly devotion,
“let us keep apart no longer.  It is but for me to say that I can live
contented upon such means as you have, and I well know you are happy.  I
say so from my heart.  Strive no more alone; let us strive together.  My
dear Michael, it is not right that I should keep secret from you what you
do not suspect, but what distresses my whole life.  My mother: without
considering that what you have lost, you have lost for me, and on the
assurance of my faith: sets her heart on riches, and urges another suit
upon me, to my misery.  I cannot bear this, for to bear it is to be
untrue to you.  I would rather share your struggles than look on.  I want
no better home than you can give me.  I know that you will aspire and
labour with a higher courage if I am wholly yours, and let it be so when
you will!”
I was blest indeed, that day, and a new world opened to me.  We were
married in a very little while, and I took my wife to our happy home.
That was the beginning of the residence I have spoken of; the Castle we
have ever since inhabited together, dates from that time.  All our
children have been born in it.  Our first child—now married—was a little
girl, whom we called Christiana.  Her son is so like Little Frank, that I
hardly know which is which.
                                * * * * *
The current impression as to my partner’s dealings with me is also quite
erroneous.  He did not begin to treat me coldly, as a poor simpleton,
when my uncle and I so fatally quarrelled; nor did he afterwards
gradually possess himself of our business and edge me out.  On the
contrary, he behaved to me with the utmost good faith and honour.
Matters between us took this turn:—On the day of my separation from my
uncle, and even before the arrival at our counting-house of my trunks
(which he sent after me, _not_ carriage paid), I went down to our room of
business, on our little wharf, overlooking the river; and there I told
John Spatter what had happened.  John did not say, in reply, that rich
old relatives were palpable facts, and that love and sentiment were
moonshine and fiction.  He addressed me thus:
“Michael,” said John, “we were at school together, and I generally had
the knack of getting on better than you, and making a higher reputation.”
“You had, John,” I returned.
“Although” said John, “I borrowed your books and lost them; borrowed your
pocket-money, and never repaid it; got you to buy my damaged knives at a
higher price than I had given for them new; and to own to the windows
that I had broken.”
“All not worth mentioning, John Spatter,” said I, “but certainly true.”
