And in following this track, where could I have better assurance that I
was right, or where could I have stronger assurance to cheer me on than
in your kindness on this to me memorable night?
I am anxious and glad to have an opportunity of saying a word in
reference to one incident in which I am happy to know you were
interested, and still more happy to know, though it may sound
paradoxical, that you were disappointed혰I mean the death of the little
heroine.  When I first conceived the idea of conducting that simple story
to its termination, I determined rigidly to adhere to it, and never to
forsake the end I had in view.  Not untried in the school of affliction,
in the death of those we love, I thought what a good thing it would be if
in my little work of pleasant amusement I could substitute a garland of
fresh flowers for the sculptured horrors which disgrace the tomb.  If I
have put into my book anything which can fill the young mind with better
thoughts of death, or soften the grief of older hearts; if I have written
one word which can afford pleasure or consolation to old or young in time
of trial, I shall consider it as something achieved혰something which I
shall be glad to look back upon in after life.  Therefore I kept to my
purpose, notwithstanding that towards the conclusion of the story, I
daily received letters of remonstrance, especially from the ladies.  God
bless them for their tender mercies!  The Professor was quite right when
he said that I had not reached to an adequate delineation of their
virtues; and I fear that I must go on blotting their characters in
endeavouring to reach the ideal in my mind.  These letters were, however,
combined with others from the sterner sex, and some of them were not
altogether free from personal invective.  But, notwithstanding, I kept to
my purpose, and I am happy to know that many of those who at first
condemned me are now foremost in their approbation.
If I have made a mistake in detaining you with this little incident, I do
not regret having done so; for your kindness has given me such a
confidence in you, that the fault is yours and not mine.  I come once
more to thank you, and here I am in a difficulty again.  The distinction
you have conferred upon me is one which I never hoped for, and of which I
never dared to dream.  That it is one which I shall never forget, and
that while I live I shall be proud of its remembrance, you must well
know.  I believe I shall never hear the name of this capital of Scotland
without a thrill of gratitude and pleasure.  I shall love while I have
life her people, her hills, and her houses, and even the very stones of
her streets.  And if in the future works which may lie before me you
should discern혰God grant you may!혰a brighter spirit and a clearer wit, I
pray you to refer it back to this night, and point to that as a Scottish
passage for evermore.  I thank you again and again, with the energy of a
thousand thanks in each one, and I drink to you with a heart as full as
my glass, and far easier emptied, I do assure you.
