In a suit of coarse flannel with horn buttons, a yellow neckerchief with
draggled ends, an old hat more russet-coloured than black, and laced
boots of the hue of his stony calling, Durdles leads a hazy, gipsy sort
of life, carrying his dinner about with him in a small bundle, and
sitting on all manner of tombstones to dine.  This dinner of Durdles's
has become quite a Cloisterham institution: not only because of his never
appearing in public without it, but because of its having been, on
certain renowned occasions, taken into custody along with Durdles (as
drunk and incapable), and exhibited before the Bench of justices at the
townhall.  These occasions, however, have been few and far apart: Durdles
being as seldom drunk as sober.  For the rest, he is an old bachelor, and
he lives in a little antiquated hole of a house that was never finished:
supposed to be built, so far, of stones stolen from the city wall.  To
this abode there is an approach, ankle-deep in stone chips, resembling a
petrified grove of tombstones, urns, draperies, and broken columns, in
all stages of sculpture.  Herein two journeymen incessantly chip, while
other two journeymen, who face each other, incessantly saw stone; dipping
as regularly in and out of their sheltering sentry-boxes, as if they were
mechanical figures emblematical of Time and Death.
To Durdles, when he had consumed his glass of port, Mr. Sapsea intrusts
that precious effort of his Muse.  Durdles unfeelingly takes out his
two-foot rule, and measures the lines calmly, alloying them with
stone-grit.
'This is for the monument, is it, Mr. Sapsea?'
'The Inscription.  Yes.'  Mr. Sapsea waits for its effect on a common
mind.
'It'll come in to a eighth of a inch,' says Durdles.  'Your servant, Mr.
Jasper.  Hope I see you well.'
'How are you Durdles?'
'I've got a touch of the Tombatism on me, Mr. Jasper, but that I must
expect.'
'You mean the Rheumatism,' says Sapsea, in a sharp tone.  (He is nettled
by having his composition so mechanically received.)
'No, I don't.  I mean, Mr. Sapsea, the Tombatism.  It's another sort from
Rheumatism.  Mr. Jasper knows what Durdles means.  You get among them
Tombs afore it's well light on a winter morning, and keep on, as the
Catechism says, a-walking in the same all the days of your life, and
_you'll_ know what Durdles means.'
'It is a bitter cold place,' Mr. Jasper assents, with an antipathetic
shiver.
'And if it's bitter cold for you, up in the chancel, with a lot of live
breath smoking out about you, what the bitterness is to Durdles, down in
the crypt among the earthy damps there, and the dead breath of the old
'uns,' returns that individual, 'Durdles leaves you to judge.--Is this to
be put in hand at once, Mr. Sapsea?'
Mr. Sapsea, with an Author's anxiety to rush into publication, replies
that it cannot be out of hand too soon.
'You had better let me have the key then,' says Durdles.
