About half-past seven o'clock in the evening, some ten days or a
fortnight after Mr. Pickwick and his friends returned to London, there
hurried into one of these offices, an individual in a brown coat and
brass buttons, whose long hair was scrupulously twisted round the rim
of his napless hat, and whose soiled drab trousers were so tightly
strapped over his Blucher boots, that his knees threatened every moment
to start from their concealment. He produced from his coat pocket a
long and narrow strip of parchment, on which the presiding functionary
impressed an illegible black stamp. He then drew forth four scraps of
paper, of similar dimensions, each containing a printed copy of the
strip of parchment with blanks for a name; and having filled up the
blanks, put all the five documents in his pocket, and hurried away.
The man in the brown coat, with the cabalistic documents in his pocket,
was no other than our old acquaintance Mr. Jackson, of the house of
Dodson and Fogg, Freeman's Court, Cornhill. Instead of returning to the
office from whence he came, however, he bent his steps direct to Sun
Court, and walking straight into the George and Vulture, demanded to
know whether one Mr. Pickwick was within.
"Call Mr. Pickwick's servant, Tom," said the barmaid of the George and
Vulture.
"Don't trouble yourself," said Mr. Jackson, "I've come on business. If
you'll show me Mr. Pickwick's room I'll step up myself."
"What name, sir?" said the waiter.
"Jackson," replied the clerk.
The waiter stepped up-stairs to announce Mr. Jackson; but Mr. Jackson
saved him the trouble by following close at his heels, and walking into
the apartment before he could articulate a syllable.
Mr. Pickwick had, that day, invited his three friends to dinner; they
were all seated round the fire, drinking their wine, when Mr. Jackson
presented himself, as above described.
"How de do, sir?" said Mr. Jackson, nodding to Mr. Pickwick.
That gentleman bowed, and looked somewhat surprised, for the
physiognomy of Mr. Jackson dwelt not on his recollection.
"I have called from Dodson and Fogg's," said Mr. Jackson, in an
explanatory tone.
Mr. Pickwick roused at the name. "I refer you to my attorney, sir: Mr.
Perker, of Gray's Inn," said he. "Waiter, show this gentleman out."
"Beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick," said Jackson, deliberately depositing
his hat on the floor, and drawing from his pocket the strip of
parchment. "But personal service, by clerk or agent, in these cases,
you know, Mr. Pickwick--nothing like caution, sir, in all legal forms."
Here Mr. Jackson cast his eye on the parchment; and resting his hands
on the table, and looking round with a winning and persuasive smile,
said: "Now, come; don't let's have no words about such a little matter
as this. Which of you gentlemen's name's Snodgrass?"
At this inquiry Mr. Snodgrass gave such a very undisguised and palpable
start, that no further reply was needed.
"Ah! I thought so," said Mr. Jackson, more affably than before. "I've
got a little something to trouble you with, sir."
