"Well, Alfred!" cried the Doctor, "what do you say now?"
"I say, Sir," replied Alfred, "that the greatest favor you could do me,
and yourself too I am inclined to think, would be to try sometimes to
forget this battle-field, and others like it, in that broader
battle-field of Life, on which the sun looks every day."
"Really, I'm afraid that wouldn't soften his opinions, Mr. Alfred," said
Snitchey. "The combatants are very eager and very bitter in that same
battle of Life. There's a great deal of cutting and slashing, and firing
into people's heads from behind; terrible treading down, and trampling
on; it's rather a bad business."
"I believe, Mr. Snitchey," said Alfred, "there are quiet victories and
struggles, great sacrifices of self, and noble acts of heroism, in
it--even in many of its apparent lightnesses and contradictions--not the
less difficult to achieve, because they have no earthly chronicle or
audience; done every day in nooks and corners, and in little households,
and in men's and women's hearts--any one of which might reconcile the
sternest man to such a world, and fill him with belief and hope in it,
though two-fourths of its people were at war, and another fourth at law;
and that's a bold word."
Both the sisters listened keenly.
"Well, well!" said the Doctor, "I am too old to be converted, even by
my friend Snitchey here, or my good spinster sister, Martha Jeddler;
who had what she calls her domestic trials ages ago, and has led a
sympathising life with all sorts of people ever since; and who is so
much of your opinion (only she's less reasonable and more obstinate,
being a woman), that we can't agree, and seldom meet. I was born upon
this battle-field. I began, as a boy, to have my thoughts directed to
the real history of a battle-field. Sixty years have gone over my head;
and I have never seen the Christian world, including Heaven knows how
many loving mothers and good enough girls, like mine here, anything but
mad for a battle-field. The same contradictions prevail in everything.
One must either laugh or cry at such stupendous inconsistencies; and I
prefer to laugh."
Britain, who had been paying the profoundest and most melancholy
attention to each speaker in his turn, seemed suddenly to decide in
favor of the same preference, if a deep sepulchral sound that escaped
him might be construed into a demonstration of risibility. His face,
however, was so perfectly unaffected by it, both before and afterwards,
that although one or two of the breakfast party looked round as being
startled by a mysterious noise, nobody connected the offender with it.
Except his partner in attendance, Clemency Newcome; who, rousing him
with one of those favorite joints, her elbows, inquired, in a
reproachful whisper, what he laughed at.
"Not you!" said Britain.
"Who then?"
"Humanity," said Britain. "That's the joke."
"What between master and them lawyers, he's getting more and more
addle-headed every day!" cried Clemency, giving him a lunge with the
other elbow, as a mental stimulant. "Do you know where you are? Do you
want to get warning?"
