He does so.  She breathes a light breath into it and asks, retaining it
and looking into it:--
'Now say, what do you see?'
'See, Rosa?'
'Why, I thought you Egyptian boys could look into a hand and see all
sorts of phantoms.  Can't you see a happy Future?'
For certain, neither of them sees a happy Present, as the gate opens and
closes, and one goes in, and the other goes away.
CHAPTER IV--MR. SAPSEA
Accepting the Jackass as the type of self-sufficient stupidity and
conceit--a custom, perhaps, like some few other customs, more
conventional than fair--then the purest jackass in Cloisterham is Mr.
Thomas Sapsea, Auctioneer.
Mr. Sapsea 'dresses at' the Dean; has been bowed to for the Dean, in
mistake; has even been spoken to in the street as My Lord, under the
impression that he was the Bishop come down unexpectedly, without his
chaplain.  Mr. Sapsea is very proud of this, and of his voice, and of his
style.  He has even (in selling landed property) tried the experiment of
slightly intoning in his pulpit, to make himself more like what he takes
to be the genuine ecclesiastical article.  So, in ending a Sale by Public
Auction, Mr. Sapsea finishes off with an air of bestowing a benediction
on the assembled brokers, which leaves the real Dean--a modest and worthy
gentleman--far behind.
Mr. Sapsea has many admirers; indeed, the proposition is carried by a
large local majority, even including non-believers in his wisdom, that he
is a credit to Cloisterham.  He possesses the great qualities of being
portentous and dull, and of having a roll in his speech, and another roll
in his gait; not to mention a certain gravely flowing action with his
hands, as if he were presently going to Confirm the individual with whom
he holds discourse.  Much nearer sixty years of age than fifty, with a
flowing outline of stomach, and horizontal creases in his waistcoat;
reputed to be rich; voting at elections in the strictly respectable
interest; morally satisfied that nothing but he himself has grown since
he was a baby; how can dunder-headed Mr. Sapsea be otherwise than a
credit to Cloisterham, and society?
Mr. Sapsea's premises are in the High-street, over against the Nuns'
House.  They are of about the period of the Nuns' House, irregularly
modernised here and there, as steadily deteriorating generations found,
more and more, that they preferred air and light to Fever and the Plague.
Over the doorway is a wooden effigy, about half life-size, representing
Mr. Sapsea's father, in a curly wig and toga, in the act of selling.  The
chastity of the idea, and the natural appearance of the little finger,
hammer, and pulpit, have been much admired.
Mr. Sapsea sits in his dull ground-floor sitting-room, giving first on
his paved back yard; and then on his railed-off garden.  Mr. Sapsea has a
bottle of port wine on a table before the fire--the fire is an early
luxury, but pleasant on the cool, chilly autumn evening--and is
characteristically attended by his portrait, his eight-day clock, and his
weather-glass.  Characteristically, because he would uphold himself
against mankind, his weather-glass against weather, and his clock against
time.
