"I think not," said the Carrier. "Try again."
"Something for our Governor, eh?" said Caleb after pondering a little
while. "To be sure. That's what I came for; but my head's so running on
them Arks and things! He hasn't been here, has he?"
"Not he," returned the Carrier. "He's too busy, courting."
"He's coming round, though," said Caleb; "for he told me to keep on the
near side of the road going home, and it was ten to one he'd take me up.
I had better go, by-the-bye.--You couldn't have the goodness to let me
pinch Boxer's tail, mum, for half a moment, could you?"
"Why, Caleb, what a question!"
"Oh, never mind, mum!" said the little man. "He mightn't like it,
perhaps. There's a small order just come in for barking dogs; and I
should wish to go as close to Natur' as I could for sixpence. That's
all. Never mind, mum."
It happened opportunely that Boxer, without receiving the proposed
stimulus, began to bark with great zeal. But, as this implied the
approach of some new visitor, Caleb, postponing his study from the life
to a more convenient season, shouldered the round box, and took a
hurried leave. He might have spared himself the trouble, for he met the
visitor upon the threshold.
"Oh! You are here, are you? Wait a bit. I'll take you home. John
Peerybingle, my service to you. More of my service to your pretty wife.
Handsomer every day! Better too, if possible! And younger," mused the
speaker in a low voice, "that's the devil of it!"
"I should be astonished at your paying compliments, Mr. Tackleton," said
Dot, not with the best grace in the world, "but for your condition."
"You know all about it, then?"
"I have got myself to believe it somehow," said Dot.
"After a hard struggle, I suppose?"
"Very."
Tackleton the Toy merchant, pretty generally known as Gruff and
Tackleton--for that was the firm, though Gruff had been bought out long
ago; only leaving his name, and, as some said, his nature, according to
its Dictionary meaning, in the business--Tackleton the Toy merchant was
a man whose vocation had been quite misunderstood by his Parents and
Guardians. If they had made him a Money Lender, or a sharp Attorney, or
a Sheriff's Officer, or a Broker, he might have sown his discontented
oats in his youth, and, after having had the full run of himself in
ill-natured transactions, might have turned out amiable, at last, for
the sake of a little freshness and novelty. But, cramped and chafing in
the peaceable pursuit of toymaking, he was a domestic Ogre, who had been
living on children all his life, and was their implacable enemy. He
despised all toys; wouldn't have bought one for the world; delighted, in
his malice, to insinuate grim expressions into the faces of brown-paper
farmers who drove pigs to market, bellmen who advertised lost lawyers'
consciences, movable old ladies who darned stockings or carved pies; and
other like samples of his stock-in-trade. In appalling masks; hideous,
hairy, red-eyed Jacks in Boxes; Vampire Kites; demoniacal Tumblers who
wouldn't lie down, and were perpetually flying forward, to stare infants
out of countenance; his soul perfectly revelled. They were his only
relief, and safety-valve. He was great in such inventions. Anything
suggestive of a Pony nightmare was delicious to him. He had even lost
money (and he took to that toy very kindly) by getting up Goblin slides
for magic lanterns, whereon the Powers of Darkness were depicted as a
sort of supernatural shell-fish, with human faces. In intensifying the
portraiture of Giants, he had sunk quite a little capital; and, though
no painter himself, he could indicate, for the instruction of his
artists, with a piece of chalk, a certain furtive leer for the
countenances of those monsters, which was safe to destroy the peace of
mind of any young gentleman between the ages of six and eleven, for the
whole Christmas or Midsummer Vacation.
