"In a week," said Snitchey. "Mr. Craggs?--"
"In something less, I should say," responded Craggs.
"In a month," said the client, after attentively watching the two faces.
"This day month. To-day is Thursday. Succeed or fail, on this day month
I go."
"It's too long a delay," said Snitchey; "much too long. But let it be
so. I thought he'd have stipulated for three," he murmured to himself.
"Are you going? Good night, Sir."
"Good night!" returned the client, shaking hands with the Firm. "You'll
live to see me making a good use of riches yet. Henceforth, the star of
my destiny is, Marion!"
"Take care of the stairs, Sir," replied Snitchey; "for she don't shine
there. Good night!"
"Good night!"
So they both stood at the stair-head with a pair of office-candles,
watching him down; and when he had gone away, stood looking at each
other.
"What do you think of all this, Mr. Craggs?" said Snitchey.
Mr. Craggs shook his head.
"It was our opinion, on the day when that release was executed, that
there was something curious in the parting of that pair, I recollect,"
said Snitchey.
"It was," said Mr. Craggs.
"Perhaps he deceives himself altogether," pursued Mr. Snitchey, locking
up the fireproof box, and putting it away; "or if he don't, a little
bit of fickleness and perfidy is not a miracle, Mr. Craggs. And yet I
thought that pretty face was very true. I thought," said Mr. Snitchey,
putting on his great coat, (for the weather was very cold), drawing on
his gloves, and snuffing out one candle, "that I had even seen her
character becoming stronger and more resolved of late. More like her
sister's."
"Mrs. Craggs was of the same opinion," returned Craggs.
"I'd really give a trifle to-night," observed Mr. Snitchey, who was
a good-natured man, "if I could believe that Mr. Warden was reckoning
without his host; but light-headed, capricious, and unballasted as he
is, he knows something of the world and its people (he ought to, for
he has bought what he does know, dear enough); and I can't quite think
that. We had better not interfere: we can do nothing, Mr. Craggs, but
keep quiet."
"Nothing," returned Craggs.
"Our friend the Doctor makes light of such things," said Mr. Snitchey,
shaking his head. "I hope he mayn't stand in need of his philosophy. Our
friend Alfred talks of the battle of life," he shook his head again, "I
hope he mayn't be cut down early in the day. Have you got your hat, Mr.
Craggs? I am going to put the other candle out."
Mr Craggs replying in the affirmative, Mr. Snitchey suited the action to
the word, and they groped their way out of the council-chamber: now as
dark as the subject, or the law in general.
                 *       *       *       *       *
My story passes to a quiet little study, where, on that same night, the
sisters and the hale old Doctor sat by a cheerful fire-side. Grace was
working at her needle. Marion read aloud from a book before her. The
Doctor, in his dressing-gown and slippers, with his feet spread out upon
the warm rug, leaned back in his easy chair, and listened to the book,
and looked upon his daughters.
