Mr. Craggs seemed positively to grate upon his own hinges, as he
delivered this opinion; to which he communicated immense effect--being
a cold, hard, dry man, dressed in grey and white, like a flint; with
small twinkles in his eyes, as if something struck sparks out of them.
The three natural kingdoms, indeed, had each a fanciful representative
among this brotherhood of disputants: for Snitchey was like a magpie or
a raven (only not so sleek), and the Doctor had a streaked face like a
winter-pippin, with here and there a dimple to express the peckings of
the birds, and a very little bit of pigtail behind, that stood for the
stalk.
As the active figure of a handsome young man, dressed for a journey,
and followed by a porter, bearing several packages and baskets,
entered the orchard at a brisk pace, and with an air of gaiety and
hope that accorded well with the morning,--these three drew together,
like the brothers of the sister Fates, or like the Graces most
effectually disguised, or like the three weird prophets on the heath,
and greeted him.
"Happy returns, Alf," said the Doctor, lightly.
"A hundred happy returns of this auspicious day, Mr. Heathfield," said
Snitchey, bowing low.
"Returns!" Craggs murmured in a deep voice, all alone.
"Why, what a battery!" exclaimed Alfred, stopping short, "and
one--two--three--all foreboders of no good, in the great sea before me.
I am glad you are not the first I have met this morning: I should have
taken it for a bad omen. But Grace was the first--sweet, pleasant
Grace--so I defy you all!"
"If you please, Mister, _I_ was the first you know," said Clemency
Newcome. "She was a walking out here, before sunrise, you remember. I
was in the house."
"That's true! Clemency was the first," said Alfred. "So I defy you with
Clemency."
"Ha, ha, ha!--for Self and Craggs," said Snitchey. "What a defiance!"
"Not so bad a one as it appears, may be," said Alfred, shaking hands
heartily with the Doctor, and also with Snitchey and Craggs, and then
looking round. "Where are the--Good Heavens!"
With a start, productive for the moment of a closer partnership between
Jonathan Snitchey and Thomas Craggs than the subsisting articles of
agreement in that wise contemplated, he hastily betook himself to where
the sisters stood together, and--however, I needn't more particularly
explain his manner of saluting Marion first, and Grace afterwards, than
by hinting that Mr. Craggs may possibly have considered it "too easy."
Perhaps to change the subject, Doctor Jeddler made a hasty move towards
the breakfast, and they all sat down at table. Grace presided; but so
discreetly stationed herself, as to cut off her sister and Alfred from
the rest of the company. Snitchey and Craggs sat at opposite corners,
with the blue bag between them for safety; and the Doctor took his usual
position, opposite to Grace. Clemency hovered galvanically about the
table, as waitress; and the melancholy Britain, at another and a smaller
board, acted as Grand Carver of a round of beef, and a ham.
