"I know," replied the Blind Girl in a gentle tone. "I understand!"
"Do you?" muttered Tackleton. "It's more than I expected. Well! On that
account I want to join the party, and to bring May and her mother. I'll
send in a little something or other, before the afternoon. A cold leg of
mutton, or some comfortable trifle of that sort. You'll expect me?"
"Yes," she answered.
She had drooped her head, and turned away; and so stood, with her hands
crossed, musing.
"I don't think you will," muttered Tackleton, looking at her; "for you
seem to have forgotten all about it already. Caleb!"
"I may venture to say I'm here, I suppose," thought Caleb. "Sir!"
"Take care she don't forget what I've been saying to her."
"_She_ never forgets," returned Caleb. "It's one of the few things she
an't clever in."
"Every man thinks his own geese swans," observed the toy merchant with a
shrug. "Poor devil!"
Having delivered himself of which remark with infinite contempt, old
Gruff and Tackleton withdrew.
Bertha remained where he had left her, lost in meditation. The gaiety
had vanished from her downcast face, and it was very sad. Three or four
times she shook her head, as if bewailing some remembrance or some loss;
but her sorrowful reflections found no vent in words.
It was not until Caleb had been occupied some time in yoking a team of
horses to a waggon by the summary process of nailing the harness to the
vital parts of their bodies, that she drew near to his working-stool,
and, sitting down beside him, said:
"Father, I am lonely in the dark. I want my eyes, my patient, willing
eyes."
"Here they are," said Caleb. "Always ready. They are more yours than
mine, Bertha, any hour in the four-and-twenty. What shall your eyes do
for you, dear?"
"Look round the room, father."
"All right," said Caleb. "No sooner said than done, Bertha."
"Tell me about it."
"It's much the same as usual," said Caleb. "Homely, but very snug. The
gay colours on the walls; the bright flowers on the plates and dishes;
the shining wood, where there are beams or panels; the general
cheerfulness and neatness of the building,--make it very pretty."
Cheerful and neat it was, wherever Bertha's hands could busy
themselves. But nowhere else were cheerfulness and neatness possible in
the old crazy shed which Caleb's fancy so transformed.
"You have your working dress on, and are not so gallant as when you wear
the handsome coat?" said Bertha, touching him.
"Not quite so gallant," answered Caleb. "Pretty brisk, though."
"Father," said the Blind Girl, drawing close to his side, and stealing
one arm round his neck, "tell me something about May. She is very fair?"
"She is indeed," said Caleb. And she was indeed. It was quite a rare
thing to Caleb not to have to draw on his invention.
"Her hair is dark," said Bertha pensively, "darker than mine. Her voice
is sweet and musical, I know. I have often loved to hear it. Her
shape----"
