“Whatever you do, Johnny,” said Mrs. Tetterby, shaking her head, “take
care of her, or never look your mother in the face again.”
“Nor your brother,” said Adolphus.
“Nor your father, Johnny,” added Mr. Tetterby.
Johnny, much affected by this conditional renunciation of him, looked
down at Moloch’s eyes to see that they were all right, so far, and
skilfully patted her back (which was uppermost), and rocked her with his
foot.
“Are you wet, ’Dolphus, my boy?” said his father.  “Come and take my
chair, and dry yourself.”
“No, father, thank’ee,” said Adolphus, smoothing himself down with his
hands.  “I an’t very wet, I don’t think.  Does my face shine much,
father?”
“Well, it _does_ look waxy, my boy,” returned Mr. Tetterby.
“It’s the weather, father,” said Adolphus, polishing his cheeks on the
worn sleeve of his jacket.  “What with rain, and sleet, and wind, and
snow, and fog, my face gets quite brought out into a rash sometimes.  And
shines, it does—oh, don’t it, though!”
Master Adolphus was also in the newspaper line of life, being employed,
by a more thriving firm than his father and Co., to vend newspapers at a
railway station, where his chubby little person, like a
shabbily-disguised Cupid, and his shrill little voice (he was not much
more than ten years old), were as well known as the hoarse panting of the
locomotives, running in and out.  His juvenility might have been at some
loss for a harmless outlet, in this early application to traffic, but for
a fortunate discovery he made of a means of entertaining himself, and of
dividing the long day into stages of interest, without neglecting
business.  This ingenious invention, remarkable, like many great
discoveries, for its simplicity, consisted in varying the first vowel in
the word “paper,” and substituting, in its stead, at different periods of
the day, all the other vowels in grammatical succession.  Thus, before
daylight in the winter-time, he went to and fro, in his little oilskin
cap and cape, and his big comforter, piercing the heavy air with his cry
of “Morn-ing Pa-per!” which, about an hour before noon, changed to
“Morn-ing Pepper!” which, at about two, changed to “Morn-ing Pip-per!”
which in a couple of hours changed to “Morn-ing Pop-per!” and so declined
with the sun into “Eve-ning Pup-per!” to the great relief and comfort of
this young gentleman’s spirits.
Mrs. Tetterby, his lady-mother, who had been sitting with her bonnet and
shawl thrown back, as aforesaid, thoughtfully turning her wedding-ring
round and round upon her finger, now rose, and divesting herself of her
out-of-door attire, began to lay the cloth for supper.
“Ah, dear me, dear me, dear me!” said Mrs. Tetterby.  “That’s the way the
world goes!”
“Which is the way the world goes, my dear?” asked Mr. Tetterby, looking
round.
“Oh, nothing,” said Mrs. Tetterby.
Mr. Tetterby elevated his eyebrows, folded his newspaper afresh, and
carried his eyes up it, and down it, and across it, but was wandering in
his attention, and not reading it.
