The pet pupil of the Nuns' House is Miss Rosa Bud, of course called
Rosebud; wonderfully pretty, wonderfully childish, wonderfully whimsical.
An awkward interest (awkward because romantic) attaches to Miss Bud in
the minds of the young ladies, on account of its being known to them that
a husband has been chosen for her by will and bequest, and that her
guardian is bound down to bestow her on that husband when he comes of
age.  Miss Twinkleton, in her seminarial state of existence, has combated
the romantic aspect of this destiny by affecting to shake her head over
it behind Miss Bud's dimpled shoulders, and to brood on the unhappy lot
of that doomed little victim.  But with no better effect--possibly some
unfelt touch of foolish Mr. Porters has undermined the endeavour--than to
evoke from the young ladies an unanimous bedchamber cry of 'O, what a
pretending old thing Miss Twinkleton is, my dear!'
The Nuns' House is never in such a state of flutter as when this allotted
husband calls to see little Rosebud.  (It is unanimously understood by
the young ladies that he is lawfully entitled to this privilege, and that
if Miss Twinkleton disputed it, she would be instantly taken up and
transported.)  When his ring at the gate-bell is expected, or takes
place, every young lady who can, under any pretence, look out of window,
looks out of window; while every young lady who is 'practising,'
practises out of time; and the French class becomes so demoralised that
the mark goes round as briskly as the bottle at a convivial party in the
last century.
On the afternoon of the day next after the dinner of two at the
gatehouse, the bell is rung with the usual fluttering results.
'Mr. Edwin Drood to see Miss Rosa.'
This is the announcement of the parlour-maid in chief.  Miss Twinkleton,
with an exemplary air of melancholy on her, turns to the sacrifice, and
says, 'You may go down, my dear.'  Miss Bud goes down, followed by all
eyes.
Mr. Edwin Drood is waiting in Miss Twinkleton's own parlour: a dainty
room, with nothing more directly scholastic in it than a terrestrial and
a celestial globe.  These expressive machines imply (to parents and
guardians) that even when Miss Twinkleton retires into the bosom of
privacy, duty may at any moment compel her to become a sort of Wandering
Jewess, scouring the earth and soaring through the skies in search of
knowledge for her pupils.
The last new maid, who has never seen the young gentleman Miss Rosa is
engaged to, and who is making his acquaintance between the hinges of the
open door, left open for the purpose, stumbles guiltily down the kitchen
stairs, as a charming little apparition, with its face concealed by a
little silk apron thrown over its head, glides into the parlour.
'O! _it is_ so ridiculous!' says the apparition, stopping and shrinking.
'Don't, Eddy!'
'Don't what, Rosa?'
'Don't come any nearer, please.  It _is_ so absurd.'
