    May God bless and sustain you, and all in connection with you, in
    this great trial.  Time may roll on and bear all its sons away, but
    your name as a disinterested person will stand in history, and, as
    successive years pass, many a widow will think of your noble conduct,
    and the tears of gratitude flow down many a cheek, the tribute of a
    thankful heart, when other things are forgotten for ever.
A father writes:
    I am at a loss to find words to sufficiently express my gratitude to
    you for your kindness to my son Richard upon the melancholy occasion
    of his visit to his dear brother’s body, and also for your ready
    attention in pronouncing our beautiful burial service over my poor
    unfortunate son’s remains.  God grant that your prayers over him may
    reach the Mercy Seat, and that his soul may be received (through
    Christ’s intercession) into heaven!
    His dear mother begs me to convey to you her heartfelt thanks.
Those who were received at the clergyman’s house, write thus, after
leaving it:
    DEAR AND NEVER-TO-BE-FORGOTTEN FRIENDS.  I arrived here yesterday
    morning without accident, and am about to proceed to my home by
    railway.
    I am overpowered when I think of you and your hospitable home.  No
    words could speak language suited to my heart.  I refrain.  God
    reward you with the same measure you have meted with!
    I enumerate no names, but embrace you all.
MY BELOVED FRIENDS.  This is the first day that I have been able to leave
my bedroom since I returned, which will explain the reason of my not
writing sooner.
If I could only have had my last melancholy hope realised in recovering
the body of my beloved and lamented son, I should have returned home
somewhat comforted, and I think I could then have been comparatively
resigned.
I fear now there is but little prospect, and I mourn as one without hope.
The only consolation to my distressed mind is in having been so feelingly
allowed by you to leave the matter in your hands, by whom I well know
that everything will be done that can be, according to arrangements made
before I left the scene of the awful catastrophe, both as to the
identification of my dear son, and also his interment.
I feel most anxious to hear whether anything fresh has transpired since I
left you; will you add another to the many deep obligations I am under to
you by writing to me?  And should the body of my dear and unfortunate son
be identified, let me hear from you immediately, and I will come again.
Words cannot express the gratitude I feel I owe to you all for your
benevolent aid, your kindness, and your sympathy.
                                * * * * *
MY DEARLY BELOVED FRIENDS.  I arrived in safety at my house yesterday,
and a night’s rest has restored and tranquillised me.  I must again
repeat, that language has no words by which I can express my sense of
obligation to you.  You are enshrined in my heart of hearts.
