"Here's a subpoena for you, Mr. Weller," said Jackson.
"What's that in English?" inquired Sam.
"Here's the original," said Jackson, declining the required explanation.
"Which?" said Sam.
"This," replied Jackson, shaking the parchment.
"Oh, that's the 'rig'nal, is it?" said Sam. "Well, I'm wery glad I've
seen the 'rig'nal, 'cos it's a gratifyin' sort o' thing, and eases
vun's mind so much."
"And here's the shilling," said Jackson. "It's from Dodson and Fogg's."
"And it's uncommon handsome o' Dodson and Fogg, as knows so little of
me, to come down vith a present," said Sam. "I feel it as a wery high
compliment, sir; it's a wery hon'rable thing to them, as they knows how
to reward merit werever they meets it. Besides wich, it's affectin' to
one's feelin's."
As Mr. Weller said this, he inflicted a little friction on his right
eyelid, with the sleeve of his coat, after the most approved manner of
actors when they are in domestic pathetics.
Mr. Jackson seemed rather puzzled by Sam's proceedings; but, as he had
served the subpoenas, and had nothing more to say, he made a feint of
putting on the one glove which he usually carried in his hand for the
sake of appearances; and returned to the office to report progress.
Mr. Pickwick slept little that night; his memory had received a very
disagreeable refresher on the subject of Mrs. Bardell's action. He
breakfasted betimes next morning, and, desiring Sam to accompany him,
set forth towards Gray's Inn Square.
"Sam!" said Mr. Pickwick, looking round, when they got to the end of
Cheapside.
"Sir?" said Sam, stepping up to his master.
"Which way?"
"Up Newgate Street."
Mr. Pickwick did not turn round immediately, but looked vacantly in
Sam's face for a few seconds, and heaved a deep sigh.
"What's the matter, sir?" inquired Sam.
"This action, Sam," said Mr. Pickwick, "is expected to come on on the
fourteenth of next month."
"Remarkable coin_ci_dence that 'ere, sir," replied Sam.
"Why remarkable, Sam?" inquired Mr. Pickwick.
"Walentine's day, sir," responded Sam; "reg'lar good day for a breach
o' promise trial."
Mr. Weller's smile awakened no gleam of mirth in his master's
countenance. Mr. Pickwick turned abruptly round, and led the way in
silence.
They had walked some distance: Mr. Pickwick trotting on before, plunged
in profound meditation, and Sam following behind, with a countenance
expressive of the most enviable and easy defiance of everything and
everybody: when the latter, who was always especially anxious to impart
to his master any exclusive information he possessed, quickened his
pace until he was close at Mr. Pickwick's heels; and, pointing up at a
house they were passing, said:
"Wery nice pork-shop that 'ere, sir."
"Yes, it seems so," said Mr. Pickwick.
"Celebrated sassage factory," said Sam.
"Is it?" said Mr. Pickwick.
"Is it!" reiterated Sam, with some indignation: "I should rayther
think it was. Why, sir, bless your innocent eyebrows, that's where the
mysterious disappearance of a 'spectable tradesman took place four year
ago."
