'Mrs Quilp.'
'Yes, Quilp.'
'If ever you listen to these beldames again, I'll bite you.'
With this laconic threat, which he accompanied with a snarl that gave
him the appearance of being particularly in earnest, Mr Quilp bade her
clear the teaboard away, and bring the rum. The spirit being set before
him in a huge case-bottle, which had originally come out of some ship's
locker, he settled himself in an arm-chair with his large head and face
squeezed up against the back, and his little legs planted on the table.
'Now, Mrs Quilp,' he said; 'I feel in a smoking humour, and shall
probably blaze away all night. But sit where you are, if you please, in
case I want you.'
His wife returned no other reply than the necessary 'Yes, Quilp,' and
the small lord of the creation took his first cigar and mixed his first
glass of grog. The sun went down and the stars peeped out, the Tower
turned from its own proper colours to grey and from grey to black, the
room became perfectly dark and the end of the cigar a deep fiery red,
but still Mr Quilp went on smoking and drinking in the same position,
and staring listlessly out of window with the doglike smile always on
his face, save when Mrs Quilp made some involuntary movement of
restlessness or fatigue; and then it expanded into a grin of delight.
CHAPTER 5
Whether Mr Quilp took any sleep by snatches of a few winks at a time,
or whether he sat with his eyes wide open all night long, certain it is
that he kept his cigar alight, and kindled every fresh one from the
ashes of that which was nearly consumed, without requiring the
assistance of a candle. Nor did the striking of the clocks, hour after
hour, appear to inspire him with any sense of drowsiness or any natural
desire to go to rest, but rather to increase his wakefulness, which he
showed, at every such indication of the progress of the night, by a
suppressed cackling in his throat, and a motion of his shoulders, like
one who laughs heartily but the same time slyly and by stealth.
At length the day broke, and poor Mrs Quilp, shivering with cold of
early morning and harassed by fatigue and want of sleep, was discovered
sitting patiently on her chair, raising her eyes at intervals in mute
appeal to the compassion and clemency of her lord, and gently reminding
him by an occasion cough that she was still unpardoned and that her
penance had been of long duration. But her dwarfish spouse still smoked
his cigar and drank his rum without heeding her; and it was not until
the sun had some time risen, and the activity and noise of city day
were rife in the street, that he deigned to recognize her presence by
any word or sign. He might not have done so even then, but for certain
impatient tapping at the door he seemed to denote that some pretty hard
knuckles were actively engaged upon the other side.
