"The chaplain turned red and the Duke yellow, and for a moment neither
spoke.
"Then the Duke said, 'Here are words enough, Madam. Do you wish the relics
brought up from the crypt?'
"'I wish nothing that I owe to another's intervention!'
"'Put the image in place then,' says the Duke furiously; and handed her
grace to a chair.
"She sat there, my grandmother said, straight as an arrow, her hands
locked, her head high, her eyes on the Duke, while the statue was dragged
to its place; then she stood up and turned away. As she passed by Nencia,
'Call me Antonio,' she whispered; but before the words were out of her
mouth the Duke stepped between them.
"'Madam,' says he, all smiles now, 'I have travelled straight from Rome to
bring you the sooner this proof of my esteem. I lay last night at Monselice
and have been on the road since daybreak. Will you not invite me to
supper?'
"'Surely, my lord,' said the Duchess. 'It shall be laid in the
dining-parlor within the hour.'
"'Why not in your chamber and at once, Madam? Since I believe it is your
custom to sup there.'
"'In my chamber?' says the Duchess, in disorder.
"'Have you anything against it?' he asked.
"'Assuredly not, sir, if you will give me time to prepare myself.'
"'I will wait in your cabinet,' said the Duke.
"At that, said my grandmother, the Duchess gave one look, as the souls in
hell may have looked when the gates closed on our Lord; then she called
Nencia and passed to her chamber.
"What happened there my grandmother could never learn, but that the
Duchess, in great haste, dressed herself with extraordinary splendor,
powdering her hair with gold, painting her face and bosom, and covering
herself with jewels till she shone like our Lady of Loreto; and hardly
were these preparations complete when the Duke entered from the cabinet,
followed by the servants carrying supper. Thereupon the Duchess dismissed
Nencia, and what follows my grandmother learned from a pantry-lad who
brought up the dishes and waited in the cabinet; for only the Duke's
body-servant entered the bed-chamber.
"Well, according to this boy, sir, who was looking and listening with his
whole body, as it were, because he had never before been suffered so near
the Duchess, it appears that the noble couple sat down in great good humor,
the Duchess playfully reproving her husband for his long absence, while the
Duke swore that to look so beautiful was the best way of punishing him.
In this tone the talk continued, with such gay sallies on the part of the
Duchess, such tender advances on the Duke's, that the lad declared they
were for all the world like a pair of lovers courting on a summer's night
in the vineyard; and so it went till the servant brought in the mulled
wine.
"'Ah,' the Duke was saying at that moment, 'this agreeable evening repays
me for the many dull ones I have spent away from you; nor do I remember
to have enjoyed such laughter since the afternoon last year when we drank
chocolate in the gazebo with my cousin Ascanio. And that reminds me,' he
said, 'is my cousin in good health?'
