But Mrs. Peyton's real excuse was after all one which she would never have
given. It was because her intimacy with her son was the one need of her
life that she had, with infinite tact and discretion, but with equal
persistency, clung to every step of his growth, dissembling herself,
adapting herself, rejuvenating herself in the passionate effort to be
always within reach, but never in the way.
Denis Peyton had died after seven years of marriage, when his boy was
barely six. During those seven years he had managed to squander the best
part of the fortune he had inherited from his step-brother; so that, at his
death, his widow and son were left with a scant competence. Mrs. Peyton,
during her husband's life, had apparently made no effort to restrain his
expenditure. She had even been accused by those judicious persons who are
always ready with an estimate of their neighbours' motives, of having
encouraged poor Denis's improvidence for the gratification of her own
ambition. She had in fact, in the early days of their marriage, tried to
launch him in politics, and had perhaps drawn somewhat heavily on his funds
in the first heat of the contest; but the experiment ending in failure, as
Denis Peyton's experiments were apt to end, she had made no farther demands
on his exchequer. Her personal tastes were in fact unusually simple, but
her outspoken indifference to money was not, in the opinion of her critics,
designed to act as a check upon her husband; and it resulted in leaving
her, at his death, in straits from which it was impossible not to deduce a
moral.
Her small means, and the care of the boy's education, served the widow as
a pretext for secluding herself in a socially remote suburb, where it was
inferred that she was expiating, on queer food and in ready-made boots, her
rash defiance of fortune. Whether or not Mrs. Peyton's penance took this
form, she hoarded her substance to such good purpose that she was not only
able to give Dick the best of schooling, but to propose, on his leaving
Harvard, that he should prolong his studies by another four years at the
Beaux Arts. It had been the joy of her life that her boy had early shown
a marked bent for a special line of work. She could not have borne to see
him reduced to a mere money-getter, yet she was not sorry that their small
means forbade the cultivation of an ornamental leisure. In his college days
Dick had troubled her by a superabundance of tastes, a restless flitting
from one form of artistic expression to another. Whatever art he enjoyed
he wished to practise, and he passed from music to painting, from painting
to architecture, with an ease which seemed to his mother to indicate lack
of purpose rather than excess of talent. She had observed that these
changes were usually due, not to self-criticism, but to some external
discouragement. Any depreciation of his work was enough to convince him
of the uselessness of pursuing that special form of art, and the reaction
produced the immediate conviction that he was really destined to shine in
some other line of work. He had thus swung from one calling to another
till, at the end of his college career, his mother took the decisive step
of transplanting him to the Beaux Arts, in the hope that a definite course
of study, combined with the stimulus of competition, might fix his wavering
aptitudes. The result justified her expectation, and their four years in
the Rue de Varennes yielded the happiest confirmation of her belief in
him. Dick's ability was recognized not only by his mother, but by his
professors. He was engrossed in his work, and his first successes developed
his capacity for application. His mother's only fear was that praise was
still too necessary to him. She was uncertain how long his ambition would
sustain him in the face of failure. He gave lavishly where he was sure
of a return; but it remained to be seen if he were capable of production
without recognition. She had brought him up in a wholesome scorn of
material rewards, and nature seemed, in this direction, to have seconded
her training. He was genuinely indifferent to money, and his enjoyment
of beauty was of that happy sort which does not generate the wish for
possession. As long as the inner eye had food for contemplation, he cared
very little for the deficiencies in his surroundings; or, it might rather
be said, he felt, in the sum-total of beauty about him, an ownership of
appreciation that left him free from the fret of personal desire. Mrs.
Peyton had cultivated to excess this disregard of material conditions; but
she now began to ask herself whether, in so doing, she had not laid too
great a strain on a temperament naturally exalted. In guarding against
other tendencies she had perhaps fostered in him too exclusively those
qualities which circumstances had brought to an unusual development in
herself. His enthusiasms and his disdains were alike too unqualified
for that happy mean of character which is the best defence against the
surprises of fortune. If she had taught him to set an exaggerated value on
ideal rewards, was not that but a shifting of the danger-point on which her
fears had always hung? She trembled sometimes to think how little love and
a lifelong vigilance had availed in the deflecting of inherited tendencies.
