"Caesar, if _he_ could talk--!" McCarren continued. "Know who he is, of
course? Dr. John B. Stell, the biggest alienist in the country--"
Granice, with a start, bent again between the heads in front of him.
"_That_ man--the fourth from the aisle? You're mistaken. That's not Dr.
Stell."
McCarren laughed. "Well, I guess I've been in court enough to know Stell
when I see him. He testifies in nearly all the big cases where they
plead insanity."
A cold shiver ran down Granice's spine, but he repeated obstinately:
"That's not Dr. Stell."
"Not Stell? Why, man, I _know_ him. Look--here he comes. If it isn't
Stell, he won't speak to me."
The little dried-up man was moving slowly up the aisle. As he neared
McCarren he made a slight gesture of recognition.
"How'do, Doctor Stell? Pretty slim show, ain't it?" the reporter
cheerfully flung out at him. And Mr. J. B. Hewson, with a nod of
amicable assent, passed on.
Granice sat benumbed. He knew he had not been mistaken--the man who
had just passed was the same man whom Allonby had sent to see him:
a physician disguised as a detective. Allonby, then, had thought him
insane, like the others--had regarded his confession as the maundering
of a maniac. The discovery froze Granice with horror--he seemed to see
the mad-house gaping for him.
"Isn't there a man a good deal like him--a detective named J. B.
Hewson?"
But he knew in advance what McCarren's answer would be. "Hewson? J.
B. Hewson? Never heard of him. But that was J. B. Stell fast enough--I
guess he can be trusted to know himself, and you saw he answered to his
name."
VI
SOME days passed before Granice could obtain a word with the District
Attorney: he began to think that Allonby avoided him.
But when they were face to face Allonby's jovial countenance showed
no sign of embarrassment. He waved his visitor to a chair, and leaned
across his desk with the encouraging smile of a consulting physician.
Granice broke out at once: "That detective you sent me the other day--"
Allonby raised a deprecating hand.
"--I know: it was Stell the alienist. Why did you do that, Allonby?"
The other's face did not lose its composure. "Because I looked up your
story first--and there's nothing in it."
"Nothing in it?" Granice furiously interposed.
"Absolutely nothing. If there is, why the deuce don't you bring me
proofs? I know you've been talking to Peter Ascham, and to Denver, and
to that little ferret McCarren of the _Explorer_. Have any of them been
able to make out a case for you? No. Well, what am I to do?"
Granice's lips began to tremble. "Why did you play me that trick?"
"About Stell? I had to, my dear fellow: it's part of my business. Stell
_is_ a detective, if you come to that--every doctor is."
The trembling of Granice's lips increased, communicating itself in a
long quiver to his facial muscles. He forced a laugh through his dry
throat. "Well--and what did he detect?"
