Her gaze dropped and she unclasped her hands. Her movements were so rare
that they might have been said to italicize her words. "Aunt Virginia
talked to me very seriously. It will be a great relief to mother and the
others to have me provided for in that way for two years. I must
think of that, you know." She glanced down at her gown which, under a
renovated surface, dated back to the first days of Glennard's wooing. "I
try not to cost much--but I do."
"Good Lord!" Glennard groaned.
They sat silent till at length she gently took up the argument. "As the
eldest, you know, I'm bound to consider these things. Women are such a
burden. Jim does what he can for mother, but with his own children to
provide for it isn't very much. You see, we're all poor together."
"Your aunt isn't. She might help your mother."
"She does--in her own way."
"Exactly--that's the rich relation all over! You may be miserable in
any way you like, but if you're to be happy you've got to be so in her
way--and in her old gowns."
"I could be very happy in Aunt Virginia's old gowns," Miss Trent
interposed.
"Abroad, you mean?"
"I mean wherever I felt that I was helping. And my going abroad will
help."
"Of course--I see that. And I see your considerateness in putting its
advantages negatively."
"Negatively?"
"In dwelling simply on what the going will take you from, not on what
it will bring you to. It means a lot to a woman, of course, to get
away from a life like this." He summed up in a disparaging glance the
background of indigent furniture. "The question is how you'll like
coming back to it."
She seemed to accept the full consequences of his thought. "I only know
I don't like leaving it."
He flung back sombrely, "You don't even put it conditionally then?"
Her gaze deepened. "On what?"
He stood up and walked across the room. Then he came back and paused
before her. "On the alternative of marrying me."
The slow color--even her blushes seemed deliberate--rose to her lower
lids; her lips stirred, but the words resolved themselves into a smile
and she waited.
He took another turn, with the thwarted step of the man whose nervous
exasperation escapes through his muscles.
"And to think that in fifteen years I shall have a big practice!"
Her eyes triumphed for him. "In less!"
"The cursed irony of it! What do I care for the man I shall be then?
It's slaving one's life away for a stranger!" He took her hands
abruptly. "You'll go to Cannes, I suppose, or Monte Carlo? I heard
Hollingsworth say to-day that he meant to take his yacht over to the
Mediterranean--"
She released herself. "If you think that--"
"I don't. I almost wish I did. It would be easier, I mean." He broke off
incoherently. "I believe your Aunt Virginia does, though. She somehow
connotes Hollingsworth and the Mediterranean." He caught her hands
again. "Alexa--if we could manage a little hole somewhere out of town?"
