She took the letter he held out in exchange for the cup she proffered
him, and, returning to her seat, broke the seal with the languid gesture
of the reader whose interests are all inclosed in the circle of one
cherished presence.
Her next conscious motion was that of starting to her feet, the letter
falling to them as she rose, while she held out to her husband a long
newspaper clipping.
"Ned! What's this? What does it mean?"
He had risen at the same instant, almost as if hearing her cry before
she uttered it; and for a perceptible space of time he and she studied
each other, like adversaries watching for an advantage, across the space
between her chair and his desk.
"What's what? You fairly made me jump!" Boyne said at length, moving
toward her with a sudden, half-exasperated laugh. The shadow of
apprehension was on his face again, not now a look of fixed foreboding,
but a shifting vigilance of lips and eyes that gave her the sense of his
feeling himself invisibly surrounded.
Her hand shook so that she could hardly give him the clipping.
"This article--from the 'Waukesha Sentinel'--that a man named Elwell has
brought suit against you--that there was something wrong about the Blue
Star Mine. I can't understand more than half."
They continued to face each other as she spoke, and to her astonishment,
she saw that her words had the almost immediate effect of dissipating
the strained watchfulness of his look.
"Oh, THAT!" He glanced down the printed slip, and then folded it with
the gesture of one who handles something harmless and familiar. "What's
the matter with you this afternoon, Mary? I thought you'd got bad news."
She stood before him with her undefinable terror subsiding slowly under
the reassuring touch of his composure.
"You knew about this, then--it's all right?"
"Certainly I knew about it; and it's all right."
"But what IS it? I don't understand. What does this man accuse you of?"
"Oh, pretty nearly every crime in the calendar." Boyne had tossed the
clipping down, and thrown himself comfortably into an arm-chair near
the fire. "Do you want to hear the story? It's not particularly
interesting--just a squabble over interests in the Blue Star."
"But who is this Elwell? I don't know the name."
"Oh, he's a fellow I put into it--gave him a hand up. I told you all
about him at the time."
"I daresay. I must have forgotten." Vainly she strained back among her
memories. "But if you helped him, why does he make this return?"
"Oh, probably some shyster lawyer got hold of him and talked him over.
It's all rather technical and complicated. I thought that kind of thing
bored you."
His wife felt a sting of compunction. Theoretically, she deprecated the
American wife's detachment from her husband's professional interests,
but in practice she had always found it difficult to fix her attention
on Boyne's report of the transactions in which his varied interests
involved him. Besides, she had felt from the first that, in a community
where the amenities of living could be obtained only at the cost of
efforts as arduous as her husband's professional labors, such brief
leisure as they could command should be used as an escape from immediate
preoccupations, a flight to the life they always dreamed of living. Once
or twice, now that this new life had actually drawn its magic circle
about them, she had asked herself if she had done right; but hitherto
such conjectures had been no more than the retrospective excursions of
an active fancy. Now, for the first time, it startled her a little
to find how little she knew of the material foundation on which her
happiness was built.
