The engine lowered its speed for the passage through a sleeping station.
In the light of the platform lamp Darrow looked across at his companion.
Her head had dropped toward one shoulder, and her lips were just far
enough apart for the reflection of the upper one to deepen the colour
of the other. The jolting of the train had again shaken loose the lock
above her ear. It danced on her cheek like the flit of a brown wing over
flowers, and Darrow felt an intense desire to lean forward and put it
back behind her ear.
IV
As their motor-cab, on the way from the Gare du Nord, turned into the
central glitter of the Boulevard, Darrow had bent over to point out an
incandescent threshold.
"There!"
Above the doorway, an arch of flame flashed out the name of a great
actress, whose closing performances in a play of unusual originality
had been the theme of long articles in the Paris papers which Darrow had
tossed into their compartment at Calais.
"That's what you must see before you're twenty-four hours older!"
The girl followed his gesture eagerly. She was all awake and alive now,
as if the heady rumours of the streets, with their long effervescences
of light, had passed into her veins like wine.
"Cerdine? Is that where she acts?" She put her head out of the window,
straining back for a glimpse of the sacred threshold. As they flew past
it she sank into her seat with a satisfied sigh.
"It's delicious enough just to KNOW she's there! I've never seen her,
you know. When I was here with Mamie Hoke we never went anywhere but to
the music halls, because she couldn't understand any French; and when
I came back afterward to the Farlows' I was dead broke, and couldn't
afford the play, and neither could they; so the only chance we had was
when friends of theirs invited us--and once it was to see a tragedy by
a Roumanian lady, and the other time it was for 'L'Ami Fritz' at the
Francais."
Darrow laughed. "You must do better than that now. 'Le Vertige' is a
fine thing, and Cerdine gets some wonderful effects out of it. You
must come with me tomorrow evening to see it--with your friends, of
course.--That is," he added, "if there's any sort of chance of getting
seats."
The flash of a street lamp lit up her radiant face. "Oh, will you really
take us? What fun to think that it's tomorrow already!"
It was wonderfully pleasant to be able to give such pleasure. Darrow was
not rich, but it was almost impossible for him to picture the state of
persons with tastes and perceptions like his own, to whom an evening at
the theatre was an unattainable indulgence. There floated through his
mind an answer of Mrs. Leath's to his enquiry whether she had seen the
play in question. "No. I meant to, of course, but one is so overwhelmed
with things in Paris. And then I'm rather sick of Cerdine--one is always
being dragged to see her."
