Darrow, as he observed her, again felt a detached enjoyment in her
pleasure. She was an extraordinary conductor of sensation: she seemed to
transmit it physically, in emanations that set the blood dancing in his
veins. He had not often had the opportunity of studying the effects of a
perfectly fresh impression on so responsive a temperament, and he felt a
fleeting desire to make its chords vibrate for his own amusement.
At the end of the next act she discovered with dismay that in their
transit to the cafe she had lost the beautiful pictured programme he
had bought for her. She wanted to go back and hunt for it, but Darrow
assured her that he would have no trouble in getting her another. When
he went out in quest of it she followed him protestingly to the door of
the box, and he saw that she was distressed at the thought of his having
to spend an additional franc for her. This frugality smote Darrow by its
contrast to her natural bright profusion; and again he felt the desire
to right so clumsy an injustice.
When he returned to the box she was still standing in the doorway,
and he noticed that his were not the only eyes attracted to her. Then
another impression sharply diverted his attention. Above the fagged
faces of the Parisian crowd he had caught the fresh fair countenance
of Owen Leath signalling a joyful recognition. The young man, slim and
eager, had detached himself from two companions of his own type, and
was seeking to push through the press to his step-mother's friend. The
encounter, to Darrow, could hardly have been more inopportune; it woke
in him a confusion of feelings of which only the uppermost was allayed
by seeing Sophy Viner, as if instinctively warned, melt back into the
shadow of their box.
A minute later Owen Leath was at his side. "I was sure it was you! Such
luck to run across you! Won't you come off with us to supper after it's
over? Montmartre, or wherever else you please. Those two chaps over
there are friends of mine, at the Beaux Arts; both of them rather good
fellows--and we'd be so glad----"
For half a second Darrow read in his hospitable eye the termination "if
you'd bring the lady too"; then it deflected into: "We'd all be so glad
if you'd come."
Darrow, excusing himself with thanks, lingered on for a few minutes'
chat, in which every word, and every tone of his companion's voice, was
like a sharp light flashed into aching eyes. He was glad when the bell
called the audience to their seats, and young Leath left him with the
friendly question: "We'll see you at Givre later on?"
When he rejoined Miss Viner, Darrow's first care was to find out, by a
rapid inspection of the house, whether Owen Leath's seat had given him a
view of their box. But the young man was not visible from it, and Darrow
concluded that he had been recognized in the corridor and not at his
companion's side. He scarcely knew why it seemed to him so important
that this point should be settled; certainly his sense of reassurance
was less due to regard for Miss Viner than to the persistent vision of
grave offended eyes...
