During the drive back to the hotel this vision was persistently kept
before him by the thought that the evening post might have brought a
letter from Mrs. Leath. Even if no letter had yet come, his servant
might have telegraphed to say that one was on its way; and at the
thought his interest in the girl at his side again cooled to the
fraternal, the almost fatherly. She was no more to him, after all, than
an appealing young creature to whom it was mildly agreeable to have
offered an evening's diversion; and when, as they rolled into the
illuminated court of the hotel, she turned with a quick movement which
brought her happy face close to his, he leaned away, affecting to be
absorbed in opening the door of the cab.
At the desk the night porter, after a vain search through the
pigeon-holes, was disposed to think that a letter or telegram had in
fact been sent up for the gentleman; and Darrow, at the announcement,
could hardly wait to ascend to his room. Upstairs, he and his companion
had the long dimly-lit corridor to themselves, and Sophy paused on her
threshold, gathering up in one hand the pale folds of her cloak, while
she held the other out to Darrow.
"If the telegram comes early I shall be off by the first train; so I
suppose this is good-bye," she said, her eyes dimmed by a little shadow
of regret.
Darrow, with a renewed start of contrition, perceived that he had again
forgotten her letter; and as their hands met he vowed to himself that
the moment she had left him he would dash down stairs to post it.
"Oh, I'll see you in the morning, of course!"
A tremor of pleasure crossed her face as he stood before her, smiling a
little uncertainly.
"At any rate," she said, "I want to thank you now for my good day."
He felt in her hand the same tremor he had seen in her face. "But it's
YOU, on the contrary--" he began, lifting the hand to his lips.
As he dropped it, and their eyes met, something passed through hers that
was like a light carried rapidly behind a curtained window.
"Good night; you must be awfully tired," he said with a friendly
abruptness, turning away without even waiting to see her pass into her
room. He unlocked his door, and stumbling over the threshold groped in
the darkness for the electric button. The light showed him a telegram on
the table, and he forgot everything else as he caught it up.
"No letter from France," the message read.
It fell from Darrow's hand to the floor, and he dropped into a chair
by the table and sat gazing at the dingy drab and olive pattern of
the carpet. She had not written, then; she had not written, and it
was manifest now that she did not mean to write. If she had had any
intention of explaining her telegram she would certainly, within
twenty-four hours, have followed it up by a letter. But she evidently
did not intend to explain it, and her silence could mean only that she
had no explanation to give, or else that she was too indifferent to be
aware that one was needed.
