"Me--just now?" His arm dropped away, and he turned from her with a
faint echo of her laugh. "Really, dearest, you'd better give it up, if
that's the best you can do."
"Yes, I give it up--I give it up. Have YOU?" she asked, turning round on
him abruptly.
The parlor-maid had entered with letters and a lamp, and the light
struck up into Boyne's face as he bent above the tray she presented.
"Have YOU?" Mary perversely insisted, when the servant had disappeared
on her errand of illumination.
"Have I what?" he rejoined absently, the light bringing out the sharp
stamp of worry between his brows as he turned over the letters.
"Given up trying to see the ghost." Her heart beat a little at the
experiment she was making.
Her husband, laying his letters aside, moved away into the shadow of the
hearth.
"I never tried," he said, tearing open the wrapper of a newspaper.
"Well, of course," Mary persisted, "the exasperating thing is that
there's no use trying, since one can't be sure till so long afterward."
He was unfolding the paper as if he had hardly heard her; but after a
pause, during which the sheets rustled spasmodically between his hands,
he lifted his head to say abruptly, "Have you any idea HOW LONG?"
Mary had sunk into a low chair beside the fireplace. From her seat
she looked up, startled, at her husband's profile, which was darkly
projected against the circle of lamplight.
"No; none. Have YOU?" she retorted, repeating her former phrase with an
added keenness of intention.
Boyne crumpled the paper into a bunch, and then inconsequently turned
back with it toward the lamp.
"Lord, no! I only meant," he explained, with a faint tinge of
impatience, "is there any legend, any tradition, as to that?"
"Not that I know of," she answered; but the impulse to add, "What makes
you ask?" was checked by the reappearance of the parlor-maid with tea
and a second lamp.
With the dispersal of shadows, and the repetition of the daily domestic
office, Mary Boyne felt herself less oppressed by that sense of
something mutely imminent which had darkened her solitary afternoon. For
a few moments she gave herself silently to the details of her task, and
when she looked up from it she was struck to the point of bewilderment
by the change in her husband's face. He had seated himself near the
farther lamp, and was absorbed in the perusal of his letters; but was it
something he had found in them, or merely the shifting of her own point
of view, that had restored his features to their normal aspect? The
longer she looked, the more definitely the change affirmed itself. The
lines of painful tension had vanished, and such traces of fatigue as
lingered were of the kind easily attributable to steady mental effort.
He glanced up, as if drawn by her gaze, and met her eyes with a smile.
"I'm dying for my tea, you know; and here's a letter for you," he said.
