"This was the man who spoke to me," she repeated.
She looked again at Parvis. He was trying to conceal his disturbance
under what he imagined to be an expression of indulgent commiseration;
but the edges of his lips were blue. "He thinks me mad; but I'm not
mad," she reflected; and suddenly there flashed upon her a way of
justifying her strange affirmation.
She sat quiet, controlling the quiver of her lips, and waiting till she
could trust her voice to keep its habitual level; then she said, looking
straight at Parvis: "Will you answer me one question, please? When was
it that Robert Elwell tried to kill himself?"
"When--when?" Parvis stammered.
"Yes; the date. Please try to remember."
She saw that he was growing still more afraid of her. "I have a reason,"
she insisted gently.
"Yes, yes. Only I can't remember. About two months before, I should
say."
"I want the date," she repeated.
Parvis picked up the newspaper. "We might see here," he said, still
humoring her. He ran his eyes down the page. "Here it is. Last
October--the--"
She caught the words from him. "The 20th, wasn't it?" With a sharp look
at her, he verified. "Yes, the 20th. Then you DID know?"
"I know now." Her white stare continued to travel past him. "Sunday, the
20th--that was the day he came first."
Parvis's voice was almost inaudible. "Came HERE first?"
"Yes."
"You saw him twice, then?"
"Yes, twice." She breathed it at him with dilated eyes. "He came first
on the 20th of October. I remember the date because it was the day
we went up Meldon Steep for the first time." She felt a faint gasp
of inward laughter at the thought that but for that she might have
forgotten.
Parvis continued to scrutinize her, as if trying to intercept her gaze.
"We saw him from the roof," she went on. "He came down the lime-avenue
toward the house. He was dressed just as he is in that picture. My
husband saw him first. He was frightened, and ran down ahead of me; but
there was no one there. He had vanished."
"Elwell had vanished?" Parvis faltered.
"Yes." Their two whispers seemed to grope for each other. "I couldn't
think what had happened. I see now. He TRIED to come then; but he wasn't
dead enough--he couldn't reach us. He had to wait for two months; and
then he came back again--and Ned went with him."
She nodded at Parvis with the look of triumph of a child who has
successfully worked out a difficult puzzle. But suddenly she lifted her
hands with a desperate gesture, pressing them to her bursting temples.
"Oh, my God! I sent him to Ned--I told him where to go! I sent him to
this room!" she screamed out.
She felt the walls of the room rush toward her, like inward falling
ruins; and she heard Parvis, a long way off, as if through the ruins,
crying to her, and struggling to get at her. But she was numb to his
touch, she did not know what he was saying. Through the tumult she heard
but one clear note, the voice of Alida Stair, speaking on the lawn at
Pangbourne.
