"She is greatly honored by the king, and all the people treat her
as if she were a goddess, on account of her gentleness and virtue.
In case the queen looks upon thee with favor, thou mayest be sure
of safely reaching home."
Having spoken these words, the goddess took a friendly leave of the
hero, and he entered the outer hall of Alkinoos, where he was
bewildered by the splendor. The walls were of brass, the doors of
gold, and the thresholds and lintels of pure silver. On each side
of the main entrance gold and silver dogs stood guard. They were
endowed with life and were immortal, the work and gift of the divine
Hephaestus.
There were two rows of splendid seats in the large dining-hall. They
were covered with costly mats, and the Phaeacian leaders were wont
to sit there and enjoy themselves. Golden statues of boys with lighted
torches in their hands stood on beautiful pedestals and spread light
over the merry banquets. There were fifty maid-servants in the palace.
Some of them were grinding corn in the mill. Some spent their time
in spinning and weaving, for as the men were renowned sailors, the
women also were famous for making fine cloth.
There was a large orchard all around the palace, surrounded by a thick
hedge. In the orchard there was a great variety of fruit-trees--pear,
apple, pomegranate, olive, and fig. The trees were never bare of fruit,
either in summer or in winter, for an ever-blowing west wind created
such a mild climate that the trees were constantly blooming and
ripening their fruit.
There was to be seen a tree full of blossoms, while another bent down
under the load of ripe fruit. Thus it was with the grape-vines in
the vineyard close to the orchard. Some were blooming, others had
only begun to form fruit-buds, while some were loaded with ripe
clusters ready for the wine-press. At the end of the orchard there
was a magnificent flower-garden, in which the most fragrant flowers
were blooming. Two springs also bubbled from the ground. One watered
the orchard, and the other ran to the very door of the palace, and
all the people filled their pitchers there. Such were the gifts
Alkinoos had received from the gods.
CHAPTER X
ODYSSEUS IN THE HALLS OF ALKINOOS
After Odysseus had contemplated these wonders to his heart's content,
he entered the main hall. There he found the leaders of the Phaeacians
bringing offerings of wine to Hermes, as the hour of sleep had arrived,
and this was always their last ceremony before seeking slumber. No
one saw Odysseus as he crossed the spacious room and came close to
the king and queen, for he was still concealed in the thick mist which
Athena had thrown round him. Suddenly the cloud vanished, and Odysseus
threw himself at the feet of Arete, and raised his voice in
supplication.
"Arete," he prayed, "I have come to thy husband and to thy feet through
many hardships and sorrows. May the gods give thee a long and happy
life. For many years I have been a wanderer from home and all I love.
I beg that thou wilt give me a guide and send me to my own land."
