While he pondered over these things a huge wave cast him on the foamy
shore. His bones were nearly broken, and he lay exhausted until the
wave returned, when he was hurled again with great force back into
the sea. Now the unfortunate wanderer took to swimming as his last
resort, and reached the mouth of a river, where he was able to land.
Too tired to breathe or speak, he sank down in a swoon. His knees
and arms trembled, and his whole body was bruised and swollen. When
his senses returned he rose and untied the veil that Ino had given
him and cast it back into the sea. Then he knelt down and kissed the
earth, and moved to a sheltered spot where a wild and a tame olive-tree
were standing close together, whose branches had mingled with one
another, and there he found a safe hiding-place.
Then the godlike Odysseus lay down on a bed of dry leaves, covering
himself up as one does an ember, lest it should go out. Athena came
and poured sweet sleep over his eyes, that he might find quiet rest
after all his toils.
CHAPTER VIII
NAUSICAA IS SENT TO THE RIVER BY ATHENA
While Odysseus lay in a deep sleep, the goddess Athena went to the
royal dwelling of the king of the Phaeacians, Alkinoos, in order to
hasten the return of Odysseus to his native land. She entered the
house, where she found Nausicaa, the king's daughter, sleeping in
her beautiful chamber. Near her lay two maids who served her.
Athena came as softly as a breath of air, and caused the maiden to
dream that her marriage-day was near and that it was her duty to arise
and hasten to the place by the river where they washed their clothing.
In her dream the princess seemed to hear Athena say: "Nausicaa, why
art thou so slothful? Thy beautiful robes lie neglected and thy
wedding-day is at hand, on which thou surely shouldst wear garments
of dazzling whiteness, and thou shouldst give such garments to those
maidens who lead thee forth to thy bridegroom. Therefore, as soon
as day breaks thou must ask thy father to give thee a pair of mules,
and we will hasten to the washing-place down by the river."
At the first dawn of day Nausicaa went in haste to her father and
mother to tell them of her dream. She found them in their splendid
hall. Her mother sat with her maidens spinning, and the king stood
on the threshold, just going forth to meet his chiefs in council.
The princess approached her father and said: "Dearest father, I pray
that thou wilt give me two mules and a wagon, that I may go with my
maids to the river and take all the clothes that need washing, for
it becomes the king and his sons to wear clean garments when they
go to the council of the chiefs. Thou hast five sons, three of whom
are youths not wedded, and they should be provided with fresh robes;
they will need them in the dance."
