When Odysseus had spoken these words he sat down amidst the ashes,
close to the fire, and all the guests grew silent and looked at him
with wonder. Then the oldest of the chiefs arose and said: "Alkinoos,
this is not a royal seat for a stranger, among the cinders of the
hearth. I pray thee, raise him up and place him on a throne, and order
the heralds to fill a cup with wine, that we may pour a libation to
Zeus, the protector of suppliants, and bid the guest welcome to our
good cheer."
Then Alkinoos arose and took Odysseus by the hand. He led him to a
splendid throne but little lower than his own, while the herald placed
a table before him loaded with dainty food. When Odysseus had eaten
and drunk, the attendants filled the cups to pour libations in honor
of Zeus, and Alkinoos said to them: "Listen, ye leaders and chiefs
of the Phaeacians. To-morrow we shall greet the stranger in our palace
with honors and offer a great sacrifice to the gods. And then we will
consider the best way of sending him home. But if we should find that
he is a god instead of a mortal, we will do what seems best, for the
gods do sometimes visit us in human shape."
Then said Odysseus: "Nay, Alkinoos, I am not a god, nor like the gods
in form or looks. I am only a wanderer, and I could tell of fearful
sorrows; and I would willingly die if I could only see my home once
more."
The guests all greeted Odysseus with approving words, and promised
to aid him. Then they rose, and each man went to his own home.
Odysseus remained in the hall with Arete and Alkinoos. As they
conversed, the queen noticed the garments of Odysseus, because she
had woven them herself, and she said to him: "Stranger, who art thou,
and from what land? Didst thou not say thou hadst come here after
many wanderings and voyages on the stormy sea? Who gave thee garments
of my weaving?"
Odysseus answered her: "It would not be easy, gracious queen, to tell
about all my hardships and sufferings. Yet I will do thy bidding.
I was shipwrecked long since, and thrown upon an island far out in
the sea, where Calypso, the daughter of Atlas, lives. She cared for
me most kindly, and would have made me, like herself, an immortal,
but I chose instead the hope of seeing my own native land.
"The goddess detained me seven long years on her island before she
bade me start for home. I built a raft, which she stored with food,
and she sent a pleasant breeze to carry me across the waters. But
Poseidon stirred the winds and waves against me, and I was thrown
upon the shores of this island, near the lavers, where thy daughter
and her maids went to wash the household linen. There the princess
found me, and supplied me with food and the garments I have on."
