The maids hastened to obey. They looked over what was left of the
abundant lunch and bade Odysseus eat and drink, which he was glad
to do. The princess then yoked up the mules and they started for home.
CHAPTER IX
ODYSSEUS ARRIVES AT THE PALACE OF ALKINOOS
After Nausicaa had mounted to her seat on the cart, she said to
Odysseus: "Get ready now, stranger, and we will lead thee to my
father's palace, where thou wilt meet the chiefs of the Phaeacians.
If thou art wise, take well to heart what I shall say to thee. As
long as we are at a good distance from the city there is no harm in
going along with us. Just follow close to the wagon with my maids.
"But when we come near to the town thou must go more slowly and tarry
behind a little, till we have reached my father's hall, because I
dread the gossip of the baser sort of people whom we may meet. After
thou hast seen us enter the city, then thou mayest enter it also and
inquire the way to the king's palace. It is very beautiful. Thou mayest
easily find it by thyself, for there is no other house in the city
as large as ours.
"Enter at once and find my mother and sue to her for protection and
help, that thou mayest reach thy native land and thy dear ones again."
Having spoken these words, Nausicaa touched the mules with her long
whip and they quickly left the river, wending their way toward the
city. They reached it at sunset, but Odysseus sat down in the sacred
grove of Athena, outside of the city to wait, and prayed to the goddess
that he might receive pity from the people of Phaeacia.
While he prayed, the damsels went on and soon reached the king's palace.
Nausicaa's brothers came out and welcomed them, and unhitched the
mules. When Odysseus had given them time to get home, he arose and
found his way to the town. He had hardly entered it when Athena, in
the form of a young girl carrying a pitcher of water, met him.
"My daughter," Odysseus said to her, "canst thou show me the way to
the king's palace? I am a stranger, and here for the first time."
Athena answered him: "With pleasure, stranger; the king is our
neighbor. Follow me, and I will lead thee thither. But on the way
do not greet anyone or ask questions, for the people here are not
fond of those who come from other lands."
Thus spoke Athena and pursued her way with Odysseus following her.
She threw a veil of darkness over the hero to hide him from rude gazers.
Odysseus beheld the beautiful port with astonishment--the large
ships, the great market-place, and the high walls of the city.
When they reached the palace, the girl stopped and said: "This is
the house of the king. Go in without any fear, for they love brave
men, even when they come from afar. The first thing to do is to find
the queen, whose name is Arete.
