Agamemnon, without any accident at sea, reached his native land. Full
of gratitude, he kissed the earth and wept tears of joy at the thought
of meeting his wife and son.
He entered his home with a glad heart, and his faithless wife came
to meet him, but she had prepared a hot bath for him, and there he
met his death, entangled in a net which she threw over him, for she
had not forgotten the loss of her beautiful daughter, Iphigeneia,
whom she believed to have been offered up as a sacrifice on the altar
of Artemis.
She was assisted in this dreadful deed by her husband's brother, who
became ruler over the land, holding sway eight years, when Orestes,
the son of Agamemnon, slew him and regained the kingdom.
And now we come to the return of Odysseus, the wisest of the Greeks,
who wandered to the remotest part of the earth and learned the customs
of many people, and who suffered terrible things by land and sea.
PART II
THE RETURN OF ODYSSEUS TO HIS OWN COUNTRY
CHAPTER V
ODYSSEUS ON THE ISLAND OF CALYPSO
All the Greeks who had escaped from the destruction of Troy and had
been spared the terrors of the sea returned to their homes. But the
unfortunate Odysseus was delayed by the fair nymph Calypso on her
island, where she made her home in a cool and beautiful grotto. There
he wept and mourned, desiring to see his wife again and his native
land. Each of the gods save one, Poseidon, god of the sea, wished
to help him to find the way home. Odysseus had brought Poseidon's
wrath upon himself through inflicting a terrible injury upon the
favorite son of that deity, and for that reason the wrath of the god
fell on him and he was wrecked. One day all the other gods had assembled
in the hall of Zeus, on Mount Olympos, when Athena, the favorite
daughter of Zeus and firm friend of Odysseus, knowing that her father
in his heart was well-disposed toward the hero, began to plead for
him in a way to excite greater pity still.
"O my father, thou great king among the gods," she said, "my heart
is troubled on account of the wise Odysseus, who lingers on an island,
far away from home, and suffers greatly; for a nymph lives on the
island, the daughter of great Atlas, and with sweet words she strives
to make Odysseus forget his native land. But he bewails his fate and
is full of sorrow, his only wish being to have a glimpse of the smoke
of his beloved country."
Zeus thereupon ordered Hermes to depart at once for the island and
tell the nymph to send Odysseus to his home without delay. Hermes
obeyed quickly. He bound his winged sandals to his feet, and, taking
his golden wand in his hand, flew like a meteor over land and sea
till he reached the island where the nymph Calypso made her abode.
He found her within the grotto, singing sweetly while she wove a fine
web on a golden loom.
