  THE END OF THE FIRST BOOK.
  [1] "_See my bed made_," it may be Englished. The word is
    _<U+1F00><U+03BD><U+03C4><U+03B9><U+1F79><U+03C9><U+03C3><U+03B1><U+03BD>_, which signifies _contra stantem_ as _standing
    of one side opposite to another on the other side_; which
    yet others translate _capessentem et adornantem_; which
    since it shows best to a reader, I follow.
  [2] This simile Virgil directly translates.
  THE SECOND BOOK OF HOMER'S ILIADS
  THE ARGUMENT
  Jove calls a vision up from Somnus' den
  To bid Atrides muster up his men.
  The King, to Greeks dissembling his desire,
  Persuades them to their country to retire.
  By Pallas' will, Ulysses stays their flight:
  And wise old Nestor heartens them to fight.
  They take their meat; which done, to arms they go,
  And march in good array against the foe.
  So those of Troy; when Iris, from the sky,
  Of Saturn's son performs the embassy.
  ANOTHER ARGUMENT
  Beta the dream and synod cites;
  And catalogues the naval knights.
  The other Gods, and knights at arms, all night slept; only Jove
  Sweet slumber seiz'd not; he discours'd how best he might approve
  His vow made for Achilles' grace, and make the Grecians find
  His miss in much death. All ways cast, this counsel serv'd his mind
  With most allowance; to despatch a harmful Dream to greet
  The king of men, and gave this charge: "Go to the Achive fleet,
  Pernicious Dream, and, being arriv'd in Agamemnon's tent,
  Deliver truly all this charge. Command him to convent
  His whole host arm'd before these tow'rs; for now Troy's
    broad-way'd town
  He shall take in; the heav'n-hous'd Gods are now indiff'rent grown:
  Juno's request hath won them; Troy now under imminent ills
  At all parts labours." This charge heard, the Vision straight
    fulfils;
  The ships reach'd, and Atrides' tent, in which he found him laid,
  Divine sleep pour'd about his pow'rs. He stood above his head
  Like Nestor, grac'd of old men most, and this did intimate:
  "Sleeps the wise Atreus' tame-horse son? A councillor of state
  Must not the whole night spend in sleep, to whom the people are
  For guard committed, and whose life stands bound to so much care.
  Now hear me, then, Jove's messenger, who, though far off from thee,
  Is near thee yet in ruth and care, and gives command by me
  To arm thy whole host. Thy strong hand the broad-way'd town of Troy
  Shall now take in; no more the Gods dissentiously employ
  Their high-hous'd powers; Juno's suit hath won them all to her;
  And ill fates overhang these tow'rs, address'd by Jupiter.
  Fix in thy mind this, nor forget to give it action, when
  Sweet sleep shall leave thee." Thus, he fled; and left the king of
    men
  Repeating in discourse his dream, and dreaming still, awake,
  Of pow'r, not ready yet for act. O fool, he thought to take
  In that next day old Priam's town; not knowing what affairs
  Jove had in purpose, who prepar'd, by strong fight, sighs and cares
  For Greeks and Trojans. The Dream gone, his voice still murmured
  About the king's ears; who sate up, put on him in his bed
  His silken inner weed, fair, new; and then in haste arose,
  Cast on his ample mantle, tied to his soft feet fair shoes,
  His silver-hilted sword he hung about his shoulder, took
  His father's sceptre never stain'd, which then abroad he shook,
  And went to fleet. And now great heav'n Goddess Aurora scal'd,
  To Jove, and all Gods, bringing light; when Agamemnon call'd
  His heralds, charging them aloud to call to instant court
  The thick-hair'd Greeks. The heralds call'd; the Greeks made quick
    resort.
  The Council chiefly he compos'd of old great-minded men,
  At Nestor's ships, the Pylian king. All there assembled then,
  Thus Atreus' son begun the court: "Hear, friends: A Dream divine,
  Amidst the calm night in my sleep, did through my shut eyes shine,
  Within my fantasy. His form did passing naturally
  Resemble Nestor; such attire, a stature just as high.
  He stood above my head, and words thus fashion'd did relate:
  'Sleeps the wise Atreus' tame-horse son? A councillor of state
  Must not the whole night spend in sleep, to whom the people are
  For guard committed, and whose life stands bound to so much care.
  Now hear me then, Jove's messenger, who, though far off from thee,
  Is near thee yet in love and care, and gives command by me
  To arm thy whole host. Thy strong hand the broad-way'd town of Troy
  Shall now take in; no more the Gods dissentiously employ
  Their high-hous'd pow'rs; Saturnia's suit hath won them all to her;
  And ill fates over-hang these tow'rs, address'd by Jupiter.
  Fix in thy mind this.' This express'd, he took wing and away,
  And sweet sleep left me. Let us then by all our means assay
  To arm our army; I will first (as far as fits our right)
  Try their addictions, and command with full-sail'd ships our
    flight;
  Which if they yield to, oppose you." He sate, and up arose
  Nestor, of sandy Pylos king, who, willing to dispose
  Their counsel to the public good, propos'd this to the state:
  "Princes and Councillors of Greece, if any should relate
  This vision but the king himself, it might be held a tale,
  And move the rather our retreat; but since our General
  Affirms he saw it, hold it true, and all our best means make
  To arm our army." This speech us'd, he first the Council brake;
  The other sceptre-bearing States arose too, and obey'd
  The people's Rector. Being abroad, the earth was overlaid
  With flockers to them, that came forth, as when of frequent bees
  Swarms rise out of a hollow rock, repairing the degrees
  Of their egression endlessly, with ever rising new
  From forth their sweet nest; as their store, still as it faded,
    grew,
  And never would cease sending forth her clusters to the spring,
  They still crowd out so; this fleck here, that there, belabouring
  The loaded flow'rs; so from the ships and tents the army's store
  Troop'd to these princes and the court, along th' unmeasur'd shore;
  Amongst whom, Jove's ambassadress, Fame, in her virtue shin'd,
  Exciting greediness to hear. The rabble, thus inclin'd,
  Hurried together; uproar seiz'd the high court; earth did groan
  Beneath the settling multitude; tumult was there alone.
  Thrice-three vocif'rous heralds rose, to check the rout, and get
  Ear to their Jove-kept governors; and instantly was set
  That huge confusion; ev'ry man set fast, the clamour ceas'd.
  Then stood divine Atrides up, and in his hand compress'd
  His sceptre, th' elaborate work of fi'ry Mulciber,
  Who gave it to Saturnian Jove; Jove to his messenger;
  His messenger, Argicides, to Pelops, skill'd in horse;
  Pelops to Atreus, chief of men; he, dying, gave it course
  To prince Thyestes, rich in herds; Thyestes to the hand
  Of Agamemnon render'd it, and with it the command
  Of many isles, and Argos all. On this he leaning, said:
  "O friends, great sons of Danaus, servants of Mars, Jove laid
  A heavy curse on me, to vow, and bind it with the bent
  Of his high forehead; that, this Troy of all her people spent,
  I should return; yet now to mock our hopes built on his vow,
  And charge ingloriously my flight, when such an overthrow
  Of brave friends I have authored. But to his mightiest will
  We must submit us, that hath raz'd, and will be razing still,
  Men's footsteps from so many towns; because his pow'r is most,
  He will destroy most. But how vile such and so great an host
  Will show to future times, that, match'd with lesser numbers far,
  We fly, not putting on the crown of our so-long-held war,
  Of which there yet appears no end! Yet should our foes and we
  Strike truce, and number both our pow'rs; Troy taking all that be
  Her arm'd inhabitants, and we, in tens, should all sit down
  At our truce banquet, ev'ry ten allow'd one of the town
  To fill his feast-cup; many tens would their attendant want;
  So much I must affirm our pow'r exceeds th' inhabitant.
  But their auxiliáry bands, those brandishers of spears,
  From many cities drawn, are they that are our hinderers,
  Not suff'ring well-rais'd Troy to fall. Nine years are ended now,
  Since Jove our conquest vow'd; and now, our vessels rotten grow,
  Our tackling falls; our wives, young sons, sit in their doors and
    long
  For our arrival; yet the work, that should have wreak'd our wrong,
  And made us welcome, lies unwrought. Come then, as I bid, all
  Obey, and fly to our lov'd home; for now, nor ever, shall
  Our utmost take-in broad-way'd Troy." This said, the multitude
  Was all for home; and all men else that what this would conclude
  Had not discover'd. All the crowd was shov'd about the shore,
  In sway, like rude and raging waves, rous'd with the fervent blore
  Of th' east and south winds, when they break from Jove's clouds,
    and are borne
  On rough backs of th' Icarian seas: or like a field of corn
  High grown, that Zephyr's vehement gusts bring eas'ly underneath,
  And make the stiff up-bristled ears do homage to his breath;
  For ev'n so eas'ly, with the breath Atrides us'd, was sway'd
  The violent multitude. To fleet with shouts, and disarray'd,
  All rush'd; and, with a fog of dust, their rude feet dimm'd the
    day;
  Each cried to other, "Cleanse our ships, come, launch, aboard,
    away."
  The clamour of the runners home reach'd heav'n; and then, past
    fate,
  The Greeks had left Troy, had not then the Goddess of estate
  Thus spoke to Pallas: "O foul shame, thou untam'd seed of Jove,
  Shall thus the sea's broad back be charg'd with these our friends'
    remove,
  Thus leaving Argive Helen here, thus Priam grac'd, thus Troy,
  In whose fields, far from their lov'd own, for Helen's sake, the
    joy
  And life of so much Grecian birth is vanish'd? Take thy way
  T' our brass-arm'd people, speak them fair, let not a man obey
  The charge now giv'n, nor launch one ship." She said, and Pallas
    did
  As she commanded; from the tops of heav'n's steep hill she slid,
  And straight the Greeks' swift ships she reach'd; Ulysses (like to
    Jove
  In gifts of counsel) she found out; who to that base remove
  Stirr'd not a foot, nor touch'd a ship, but griev'd at heart to see
  That fault in others. To him close the blue-eyed Deity
  Made way, and said: "Thou wisest Greek, divine Laertes' son,
  Thus fly ye homewards to your ships? Shall all thus headlong run?
  Glory to Priam thus ye leave, glory to all his friends,
  If thus ye leave her here, for whom so many violent ends
  Have clos'd your Greek eyes, and so far from their so loved home.
  Go to these people, use no stay, with fair terms overcome
  Their foul endeavour, not a man a flying sail let hoice."
  Thus spake she; and Ulysses knew 'twas Pallas by her voice,
  Ran to the runners, cast from him his mantle, which his man
  And herald, grave Eurybates, the Ithacensian
  That follow'd him, took up. Himself to Agamemnon went,
  His incorrupted sceptre took, his sceptre of descent,
  And with it went about the fleet. What prince, or man of name,
  He found flight-giv'n, he would restrain with words of gentlest
    blame:
  "Good sir, it fits not you to fly, or fare as one afraid,
  You should not only stay yourself, but see the people staid.
  You know not clearly, though you heard the king's words, yet his
    mind;
  He only tries men's spirits now, and, whom his trials find
  Apt to this course, he will chastise, Nor you, nor I, heard all
  He spake in council; nor durst press too near our General,
  Lest we incens'd him to our hurt. The anger of a king
  Is mighty; he is kept of Jove, and from Jove likewise spring
  His honours, which, out of the love of wise Jove, he enjoys."
  Thus he the best sort us'd; the worst, whose spirits brake out in
    noise,
  He cudgell'd with his sceptre, chid, and said: "Stay, wretch, be
    still,
  And hear thy betters; thou art base, and both in pow'r and skill
  Poor and unworthy, without name in council or in war.
  We must not all be kings. The rule is most irregular,
  Where many rule. One lord, one king, propose to thee; and he,
  To whom wise Saturn's son, hath giv'n both law and empery
  To rule the public, is that king." Thus ruling, he restrain'd
  The host from flight; and then again the Council was maintain'd
  With such a concourse, that the shore rung with the tumult made;
  As when the far-resounding sea doth in its rage invade
  His sandy confines, whose sides groan with his involvéd wave,
  And make his own breast echo sighs. All sate, and audience gave.
  Thersites only would speak all. A most disorder'd store
  Of words he foolishly pour'd out, of which his mind held more
  Than it could manage; any thing, with which he could procure
  Laughter, he never could contain. He should have yet been sure
  To touch no kings; t' oppose their states becomes not jesters'
    parts.
  But he the filthiest fellow was of all that had deserts
  In Troy's brave siege; he was squint-ey'd, and lame of either foot;
  So crook-back'd, that he had no breast; sharp-headed, where did
    shoot
  (Here and there spers'd) thin mossy hair. He most of all envíed
  Ulysses and Aacides, whom still his spleen would chide.
  Nor could the sacred King himself avoid his saucy vein;
  Against whom since he knew the Greeks did vehement hates sustain,
  Being angry for Achilles' wrong, he cried out, railing thus:
  "Atrides, why complain'st thou now? What would'st thou more of us?
  Thy tents are full of brass; and dames, the choice of all, are
    thine,
  With whom we must present thee first, when any towns resign
  To our invasion. Want'st thou then, besides all this, more gold
  From Troy's knights to redeem their sons, whom to be dearly sold
  I or some other Greek must take? Or would'st thou yet again
  Force from some other lord his prise, to soothe the lusts that
    reign
  In thy encroaching appetite? It fits no prince to be
  A prince of ill, and govern us, or lead our progeny
  By rape to ruin. O base Greeks, deserving infamy,
  And ills eternal! Greekish girls, not Greeks, ye are! Come, fly
  Home with our ships; leave this man here to perish with his preys,
  And try if we help'd him or not; he wrong'd a man that weighs
  Far more than he himself in worth; he forc'd from Thetis' son,
  And keeps his prise still. Nor think I that mighty man hath won
  The style of wrathful worthily; he's soft, he's too remiss;
  Or else, Atrides, his had been thy last of injuries."
  Thus he the people's Pastor chid; but straight stood up to him
  Divine Ulysses, who, with looks exceeding grave and grim,
  This bitter check gave: "Cease, vain fool, to vent thy railing vein
  On kings thus, though it serve thee well; nor think thou canst
    restrain,
  With that thy railing faculty, their wills in least degree;
  For not a worse, of all this host, came with our King than thee,
  To Troy's great siege; then do not take into that mouth of thine
  The names of kings, much less revile the dignities that shine
  In their supreme states, wresting thus this motion for our home,
  To soothe thy cowardice; since ourselves yet know not what will
    come
  Of these designments, if it be our good to stay, or go.
  Nor is it that thou stand'st on; thou revil'st our Gen'ral so,
  Only because he hath so much, not giv'n by such as thou
  But our heroës. Therefore this thy rude vein makes me vow
  (Which shall be curiously observ'd) if ever I shall hear
  This madness from thy mouth again, let not Ulysses bear
  This head, nor be the father call'd of young Telemachus,
  If to thy nakedness I take and strip thee not, and thus
  Whip thee to fleet from council; send, with sharp stripes, weeping
    hence
  This glory thou affect'st to rail." This said, his insolence
  He settled with his sceptre; strook his back and shoulders so
  That bloody wales rose. He shrunk round; and from his eyes did flow
  Moist tears, and, looking filthily, he sate, fear'd, smarted, dried
  His blubber'd cheeks; and all the prease, though griev'd to be
    denied
  Their wish'd retreat for home, yet laugh'd delightsomely, and spake
  Either to other: "O ye Gods, how infinitely take
  Ulysses' virtues in our good! Author of counsels, great
  In ord'ring armies, how most well this act became his heat,
  To beat from council this rude fool! I think his saucy spirit,
  Hereafter, will not let his tongue abuse the sov'reign merit,
  Exempt from such base tongues as his." Thus spake the people; then
  The city-razer Ithacus stood up to speak again,
  Holding his sceptre. Close to him gray-eyed Minerva stood,
  And, like a herald, silence caus'd, that all the Achive brood
  (From first to last) might hear and know the counsel; when,
    inclin'd
  To all their good, Ulysses said: "Atrides, now I find
  These men would render thee the shame of all men; nor would pay
  Their own vows to thee, when they took their free and honour'd way
  From Argos hither, that, till Troy were by their brave hands rac'd,
  They would not turn home. Yet, like babes, and widows, now they
    haste
  To that base refuge, 'Tis a spite to see men melted so
  In womanish changes; though 'tis true, that if a man do go
  Only a month to sea, and leave his wife far off, and he,
  Tortur'd with winter's storms, and toss'd with a tumultuous sea,
  Grows heavy, and would home. Us then, to whom the thrice-three year
  Hath fill'd his revoluble orb since our arrival here,
  I blame not to wish home much more; yet all this time to stay,
  Out of our judgments, for our end; and now to take our way
  Without it, were absurd and vile. Sustain then, friends; abide
  The time set to our object; try if Calchas prophesied
  True of the time or not. We know, ye all can witness well,
  (Whom these late death-conferring fates have fail'd to send to
    hell)
  That when in Aulis, all our fleet, assembled with a freight
  Of ills to Ilion and her friends, beneath the fair grown height
  A platane bore, about a fount, whence crystal water flow'd,
  And near our holy altar, we upon the Gods bestow'd
  Accomplish'd hecatombs; and there appear'd a huge portent,
  A dragon with a bloody scale, horrid to sight, and sent
  To light by great Olympius; which, crawling from beneath
  The altar, to the platane climb'd, and ruthless crash'd to death
  A sparrow's young, in number eight, that in a top-bough lay
  Hid under leaves; the dam the ninth, that hover'd every way,
  Mourning her lov'd birth, till at length, the serpent, watching
    her,
  Her wing caught, and devour'd her too. This dragon, Jupiter,
  That brought him forth, turn'd to a stone, and made a pow'rful mean
  To stir our zeals up, that admir'd, when of a fact so clean
  Of all ill as our sacrifice, so fearful an ostent
  Should be the issue. Calchas, then, thus prophesied th' event
  'Why are ye dumb-strook, fair-hair'd Greeks? Wise Jove is he hath
    shown
  This strange ostent to us. 'Twas late, and passing lately done,
  But that grace it foregoes to us, for suff'ring all the state
  Of his appearance (being so slow) nor time shall end, nor fate.
  As these eight sparrows, and the dam (that made the ninth) were eat
  By this stern serpent; so nine years we are t' endure the heat
  Of rav'nous war, and, in the tenth, take-in this broad-way'd town.'
  Thus he interpreted this sign; and all things have their crown
  As he interpreted, till now. The rest, then, to succeed
  Believe as certain. Stay we all, till, that most glorious deed
  Of taking this rich town, our hands are honour'd with." This said,
  The Greeks gave an unmeasur'd shout; which back the ships repaid
  With terrible echoes, in applause of that persuasion
  Divine Ulysses us'd; which yet held no comparison
  With Nestor's next speech, which was this: "O shameful thing! Ye
    talk
  Like children all, that know not war. In what air's region walk
  Our oaths, and cov'nants? Now, I see the fit respects of men
  Are vanish'd quite; our right hands giv'n, our faiths, our counsels
    vain,
  Our sacrifice with wine, all fled in that profanéd flame
  We made to bind all; for thus still we vain persuasions frame,
  And strive to work our end with words, not joining stratagemes
  And hands together, though, thus long, the pow'r of our extremes
  Hath urg'd us to them. Atreus' son, firm as at first hour stand!
  Make good thy purpose; talk no more in councils, but command
  In active field. Let two or three, that by themselves advise,
  Faint in their crowning; they are such as are not truly wise;
  They will for Argos, ere they knew if that which Jove hath said
  Be false or true. I tell them all, that high Jove bow'd his head,
  As first we went aboard our fleet, for sign we should confer
  These Trojans their due fate and death; almighty Jupiter
  All that day darting forth his flames, in an unmeasur'd light,
  On our right hand. Let therefore none once dream of coward flight,
  Till (for his own) some wife of Troy he sleeps withal, the rape
  Of Helen wreaking, and our sighs enforc'd for her escape.
  If any yet dare dote on home, let his dishonour'd haste
  His black and well-built bark but touch, that (as he first
    disgrac'd
  His country's spirit) fate, and death, may first his spirit let go.
  But be thou wise, king, do not trust thyself, but others. Know
  I will not use an abject word. See all thy men array'd
  In tribes and nations, that tribes tribes, nations may nations,
    aid.
  Which doing, thou shalt know what chiefs, what soldiers, play the
    men,
  And what the cowards; for they all will fight in sev'ral then,
  Easy for note. And then shalt thou, if thou destroy'st not Troy,
  Know if the prophecy's defect, or men thou dost employ
  In their approv'd arts want in war, or lack of that brave heat
  Fit for the vent'rous spirits of Greece, was cause to thy defeat."
  To this the king of men replied: "O father, all the sons
  Of Greece thou conquer'st in the strife of consultations.
  I would to Jove, Athenia, and Phobus, I could make,
  Of all, but ten such counsellors; then instantly would shake
  King Priam's city, by our hands laid hold on and laid waste.
  But Jove hath order'd I should grieve, and to that end hath cast
  My life into debates past end. Myself, and Thetis' son,
  Like girls, in words fought for a girl, and I th' offence begun.
  But if we ever talk as friends, Troy's thus deferréd fall
  Shall never vex us more one hour. Come then, to victuals all,
  That strong Mars all may bring to field. Each man his lance's steel
  See sharpen'd well, his shield well lin'd, his horses meated well,
  His chariot carefully made strong, that these affairs of death
  We all day may hold fiercely out. No man must rest, or breath;
  The bosoms of our targeteers must all be steeped in sweat;
  The lancer's arm must fall dissolv'd; our chariot-horse with heat
  Must seem to melt. But if I find one soldier take the chace,
  Or stir from fight, or fight not still fix'd in his enemy's face,
   Or hid a-ship-board, all the world, for force, nor price, shall
    save
  His hated life, but fowls and dogs be his abhorréd grave."
  He said; and such a murmur rose, as on a lofty shore
  The waves make, when the south wind comes, and tumbles them before
  Against a rock, grown near the strand which diversely beset
  Is never free, but, here and there, with varied uproars beat.
  All rose then, rushing to the fleet, perfum'd their tents, and eat;
  Each off'ring to th' immortal gods, and praying to 'scape the heat
  Of war and death. The king of men an ox of five years' spring
  T' almighty Jove slew, call'd the peers; first Nestor; then the
    king
  Idomenëus; after them th' Ajaces; and the son
  Of Tydeus; Ithacus the sixth, in counsel paragon
  To Jove himself. All these he bade; but at-a-martial-cry
  Good Menelaus, since he saw his brother busily
  Employ'd at that time, would not stand on invitation,
  But of himself came. All about the off'ring over-thrown
  Stood round, took salt-cakes, and the king himself thus pray'd for
    all:
  "O Jove, most great, most glorious, that, in that starry hall,
  Sitt'st drawing dark clouds up to air, let not the sun go down,
  Darkness supplying it, till my hands the palace and the town
  Of Priam overthrow and burn; the arm, on Hector's breast
  Dividing, spoiling with my sword thousands, in interest
  Of his bad quarrel, laid by him in dust, and eating earth."
  He pray'd; Jove heard him not, but made more plentiful the birth
  Of his sad toils, yet took his gifts. Pray'rs past, cakes on they
    threw;
  The ox then, to the altar drawn, they kill'd, and from him drew
  His hide, then cut him up, his thighs; in two hewn, dubb'd with
    fat,
  Prick'd on the sweetbreads, and with wood, leaveless, and kindled
    at
  Apposéd fire, they burn the thighs; which done, the inwards, slit,
  They broil'd on coals and eat; the rest, in giggots cut, they spit,
  Roast cunningly, draw, sit, and feast; nought lack'd to leave
    allay'd
  Each temp'rate appetite; which serv'd, Nestor began and said:
  "Atrides, most grac'd king of men, now no more words allow,
  Nor more defer the deed Jove vows. Let heralds summon now
  The brazen-coated Greeks, and us range ev'rywhere the host,
  To stir a strong war quickly up." This speech no syllable lost;
  The high-voic'd heralds instantly he, charg'd to call to arms
  The curl'd-head Greeks; they call'd; the Greeks straight answer'd
    their alarms.
  The Jove-kept kings, about the king all gather'd, with their aid
  Rang'd all in tribes and nations. With them the gray-eyed Maid
  Great Agis (Jove's bright shield) sustain'd, that can be never old,
  Never corrupted, fring'd about with serpents forg'd of gold,
  As many all suffic'd to make an hundred fringes, worth
  An hundred oxen, ev'ry snake all sprawling, all set forth
  With wondrous spirit. Through the host with this the Goddess ran,
  In fury casting round her eyes, and furnish'd ev'ry man
  With strength, exciting all to arms, and fight incessant. None
  Now lik'd their lov'd homes like the wars. And as a fire upon
  A huge wood, on the heights of hills, that far off hurls his light;
  So the divine brass shin'd on these thus thrusting on for fight,
  Their splendour through the air reach'd heav'n. And as about the
    flood
  Caister, in an Asian mead, flocks of the airy brood,
  Cranes, geese, or long-neck'd swans, here, there, proud of their
    pinions fly,
  And in their falls layout such throats, that with their spiritful
    cry
  The meadow shrieks again; so here, these many-nation'd men
  Flow'd over the Scamandrian field, from tents and ships; the din
  Was dreadful that the feet of men and horse beat out of earth.
  And in the flourishing mead they stood, thick as the odorous birth
  Of flow'rs, or leaves bred in the spring; or thick as swarms of
    flies
  Throng then to sheep-cotes, when each swarm his erring wing applies
  To milk dew'd on the milk-maid's pails; all eagerly dispos'd
  To give to ruin th' Ilians. And as in rude heaps clos'd,
  Though huge goatherds are at their food, the goatherds eas'ly yet
  Sort into sundry herds; so here the chiefs in battle set
  Here tribes, here nations, ord'ring all. Amongst whom shin'd the
    king,
  With eyes like lightning-loving Jove, his forehead answering,
  In breast like Neptune, Mars in waist. And as a goodly bull
  Most eminent of all a herd, most wrong, most masterful,
  So Agamemnon, Jove that day made overheighten clear
  That heav'n-bright army, and preferr'd to all th' heroës there.
  Now tell me, Muses, you that dwell in heav'nly roofs, (for you
  Are Goddesses, are present here, are wise, and all things know,
  We only trust the voice of fame, know nothing,) who they were
  That here were captains of the Greeks, commanding princes here.
  The multitude exceed my song, though fitted to my choice
  Ten tongues were, harden'd palates ten, a breast of brass, a voice
  Infract and trump-like; that great work, unless the seed of Jove,
  The deathless Muses, undertake, maintains a pitch above
  All mortal pow'rs. The princes then, and navy that did bring
  Those so inenarrable troops, and all their soils, I sing.
