On the chest of drawers there was a tray with a spirit lamp and a
small saucepan on it. A small quantity of a dark fluid remained in the
saucepan, and an empty cup and saucer that had been drunk out of stood
near it.
I wondered how I could have been so unobservant as to overlook this.
Here was a clue worth having. Poirot delicately dipped his finger into
liquid, and tasted it gingerly. He made a grimace.
"Cocoa--with--I think--rum in it."
He passed on to the debris on the floor, where the table by the bed had
been overturned. A reading-lamp, some books, matches, a bunch of keys,
and the crushed fragments of a coffee-cup lay scattered about.
"Ah, this is curious," said Poirot.
"I must confess that I see nothing particularly curious about it."
"You do not? Observe the lamp--the chimney is broken in two places; they
lie there as they fell. But see, the coffee-cup is absolutely smashed to
powder."
"Well," I said wearily, "I suppose someone must have stepped on it."
"Exactly," said Poirot, in an odd voice. "Someone stepped on it."
He rose from his knees, and walked slowly across to the mantelpiece,
where he stood abstractedly fingering the ornaments, and straightening
them--a trick of his when he was agitated.
"_Mon ami_," he said, turning to me, "somebody stepped on that cup,
grinding it to powder, and the reason they did so was either because it
contained strychnine or--which is far more serious--because it did not
contain strychnine!"
I made no reply. I was bewildered, but I knew that it was no good asking
him to explain. In a moment or two he roused himself, and went on with
his investigations. He picked up the bunch of keys from the floor, and
twirling them round in his fingers finally selected one, very bright
and shining, which he tried in the lock of the purple despatch-case. It
fitted, and he opened the box, but after a moment's hesitation, closed
and relocked it, and slipped the bunch of keys, as well as the key that
had originally stood in the lock, into his own pocket.
"I have no authority to go through these papers. But it should be
done--at once!"
He then made a very careful examination of the drawers of the
wash-stand. Crossing the room to the left-hand window, a round stain,
hardly visible on the dark brown carpet, seemed to interest him
particularly. He went down on his knees, examining it minutely--even
going so far as to smell it.
Finally, he poured a few drops of the cocoa into a test tube, sealing it
up carefully. His next proceeding was to take out a little notebook.
"We have found in this room," he said, writing busily, "six points of
interest. Shall I enumerate them, or will you?"
"Oh, you," I replied hastily.
"Very well, then. One, a coffee-cup that has been ground into powder;
two, a despatch-case with a key in the lock; three, a stain on the
floor."
