After tea, Mrs. Inglethorp went to lie down to rest before her efforts
in the evening and I challenged Mary Cavendish to a single at tennis.
About a quarter to seven, Mrs. Inglethorp called us that we should be
late as supper was early that night. We had rather a scramble to get
ready in time; and before the meal was over the motor was waiting at the
door.
The entertainment was a great success, Mrs. Inglethorp's recitation
receiving tremendous applause. There were also some tableaux in which
Cynthia took part. She did not return with us, having been asked to a
supper party, and to remain the night with some friends who had been
acting with her in the tableaux.
The following morning, Mrs. Inglethorp stayed in bed to breakfast, as
she was rather overtired; but she appeared in her briskest mood about
12.30, and swept Lawrence and myself off to a luncheon party.
"Such a charming invitation from Mrs. Rolleston. Lady Tadminster's
sister, you know. The Rollestons came over with the Conqueror--one of
our oldest families."
Mary had excused herself on the plea of an engagement with Dr.
Bauerstein.
We had a pleasant luncheon, and as we drove away Lawrence suggested that
we should return by Tadminster, which was barely a mile out of our way,
and pay a visit to Cynthia in her dispensary. Mrs. Inglethorp replied
that this was an excellent idea, but as she had several letters to write
she would drop us there, and we could come back with Cynthia in the
pony-trap.
We were detained under suspicion by the hospital porter, until Cynthia
appeared to vouch for us, looking very cool and sweet in her long white
overall. She took us up to her sanctum, and introduced us to her fellow
dispenser, a rather awe-inspiring individual, whom Cynthia cheerily
addressed as "Nibs."
"What a lot of bottles!" I exclaimed, as my eye travelled round the
small room. "Do you really know what's in them all?"
"Say something original," groaned Cynthia. "Every single person who
comes up here says that. We are really thinking of bestowing a prize on
the first individual who does _not_ say: 'What a lot of bottles!' And
I know the next thing you're going to say is: 'How many people have you
poisoned?'"
I pleaded guilty with a laugh.
"If you people only knew how fatally easy it is to poison someone by
mistake, you wouldn't joke about it. Come on, let's have tea. We've got
all sorts of secret stories in that cupboard. No, Lawrence--that's the
poison cupboard. The big cupboard--that's right."
We had a very cheery tea, and assisted Cynthia to wash up afterwards. We
had just put away the last tea-spoon when a knock came at the door. The
countenances of Cynthia and Nibs were suddenly petrified into a stern
and forbidding expression.
"Come in," said Cynthia, in a sharp professional tone.
A young and rather scared looking nurse appeared with a bottle which
she proffered to Nibs, who waved her towards Cynthia with the somewhat
enigmatical remark:
