"Between Aunt Emily and _him_. I do hope she's found him out at last!"
"Was Dorcas there, then?"
"Of course not. She 'happened to be near the door'. It was a real old
bust-up. I do wish I knew what it was all about."
I thought of Mrs. Raikes's gipsy face, and Evelyn Howard's warnings, but
wisely decided to hold my peace, whilst Cynthia exhausted every possible
hypothesis, and cheerfully hoped, "Aunt Emily will send him away, and
will never speak to him again."
I was anxious to get hold of John, but he was nowhere to be seen.
Evidently something very momentous had occurred that afternoon. I tried
to forget the few words I had overheard; but, do what I would, I could
not dismiss them altogether from my mind. What was Mary Cavendish's
concern in the matter?
Mr. Inglethorp was in the drawing-room when I came down to supper. His
face was impassive as ever, and the strange unreality of the man struck
me afresh.
Mrs. Inglethorp came down last. She still looked agitated, and during
the meal there was a somewhat constrained silence. Inglethorp was
unusually quiet. As a rule, he surrounded his wife with little
attentions, placing a cushion at her back, and altogether playing the
part of the devoted husband. Immediately after supper, Mrs. Inglethorp
retired to her boudoir again.
"Send my coffee in here, Mary," she called. "I've just five minutes to
catch the post."
Cynthia and I went and sat by the open window in the drawing-room. Mary
Cavendish brought our coffee to us. She seemed excited.
"Do you young people want lights, or do you enjoy the twilight?" she
asked. "Will you take Mrs. Inglethorp her coffee, Cynthia? I will pour
it out."
"Do not trouble, Mary," said Inglethorp. "I will take it to Emily." He
poured it out, and went out of the room carrying it carefully.
Lawrence followed him, and Mrs. Cavendish sat down by us.
We three sat for some time in silence. It was a glorious night, hot and
still. Mrs. Cavendish fanned herself gently with a palm leaf.
"It's almost too hot," she murmured. "We shall have a thunderstorm."
Alas, that these harmonious moments can never endure! My paradise was
rudely shattered by the sound of a well known, and heartily disliked,
voice in the hall.
"Dr. Bauerstein!" exclaimed Cynthia. "What a funny time to come."
I glanced jealously at Mary Cavendish, but she seemed quite undisturbed,
the delicate pallor of her cheeks did not vary.
In a few moments, Alfred Inglethorp had ushered the doctor in, the
latter laughing, and protesting that he was in no fit state for a
drawing-room. In truth, he presented a sorry spectacle, being literally
plastered with mud.
"What have you been doing, doctor?" cried Mrs. Cavendish.
"I must make my apologies," said the doctor. "I did not really mean to
come in, but Mr. Inglethorp insisted."
"Well, Bauerstein, you are in a plight," said John, strolling in from
the hall. "Have some coffee, and tell us what you have been up to."
