"Wait, my friend, I will let you in, and you shall recount to me the
affair whilst I dress."
In a few moments he had unbarred the door, and I followed him up to his
room. There he installed me in a chair, and I related the whole
story, keeping back nothing, and omitting no circumstance, however
insignificant, whilst he himself made a careful and deliberate toilet.
I told him of my awakening, of Mrs. Inglethorp's dying words, of her
husband's absence, of the quarrel the day before, of the scrap of
conversation between Mary and her mother-in-law that I had overheard, of
the former quarrel between Mrs. Inglethorp and Evelyn Howard, and of the
latter's innuendoes.
I was hardly as clear as I could wish. I repeated myself several times,
and occasionally had to go back to some detail that I had forgotten.
Poirot smiled kindly on me.
"The mind is confused? Is it not so? Take time, _mon ami_. You are
agitated; you are excited--it is but natural. Presently, when we are
calmer, we will arrange the facts, neatly, each in his proper place. We
will examine--and reject. Those of importance we will put on one side;
those of no importance, pouf!"--he screwed up his cherub-like face, and
puffed comically enough--"blow them away!"
"That's all very well," I objected, "but how are you going to decide
what is important, and what isn't? That always seems the difficulty to
me."
Poirot shook his head energetically. He was now arranging his moustache
with exquisite care.
"Not so. _Voyons_! One fact leads to another--so we continue. Does the
next fit in with that? _A merveille_! Good! We can proceed. This next
little fact--no! Ah, that is curious! There is something missing--a link
in the chain that is not there. We examine. We search. And that little
curious fact, that possibly paltry little detail that will not tally,
we put it here!" He made an extravagant gesture with his hand. "It is
significant! It is tremendous!"
"Y--es--"
"Ah!" Poirot shook his forefinger so fiercely at me that I quailed
before it. "Beware! Peril to the detective who says: 'It is so small--it
does not matter. It will not agree. I will forget it.' That way lies
confusion! Everything matters."
"I know. You always told me that. That's why I have gone into all the
details of this thing whether they seemed to me relevant or not."
"And I am pleased with you. You have a good memory, and you have given
me the facts faithfully. Of the order in which you present them, I say
nothing--truly, it is deplorable! But I make allowances--you are upset.
To that I attribute the circumstance that you have omitted one fact of
paramount importance."
"What is that?" I asked.
"You have not told me if Mrs. Inglethorp ate well last night."
I stared at him. Surely the war had affected the little man's brain.
He was carefully engaged in brushing his coat before putting it on, and
seemed wholly engrossed in the task.
