We went straight to the connecting door. That, too, was locked or bolted
on the inside. What was to be done?
"Oh, dear, sir," cried Dorcas, wringing her hands, "what ever shall we
do?"
"We must try and break the door in, I suppose. It'll be a tough job,
though. Here, let one of the maids go down and wake Baily and tell him
to go for Dr. Wilkins at once. Now then, we'll have a try at the door.
Half a moment, though, isn't there a door into Miss Cynthia's rooms?"
"Yes, sir, but that's always bolted. It's never been undone."
"Well, we might just see."
He ran rapidly down the corridor to Cynthia's room. Mary Cavendish
was there, shaking the girl--who must have been an unusually sound
sleeper--and trying to wake her.
In a moment or two he was back.
"No good. That's bolted too. We must break in the door. I think this one
is a shade less solid than the one in the passage."
We strained and heaved together. The framework of the door was solid,
and for a long time it resisted our efforts, but at last we felt it give
beneath our weight, and finally, with a resounding crash, it was burst
open.
We stumbled in together, Lawrence still holding his candle. Mrs.
Inglethorp was lying on the bed, her whole form agitated by violent
convulsions, in one of which she must have overturned the table beside
her. As we entered, however, her limbs relaxed, and she fell back upon
the pillows.
John strode across the room, and lit the gas. Turning to Annie, one of
the housemaids, he sent her downstairs to the dining-room for brandy.
Then he went across to his mother whilst I unbolted the door that gave
on the corridor.
I turned to Lawrence, to suggest that I had better leave them now that
there was no further need of my services, but the words were frozen on
my lips. Never have I seen such a ghastly look on any man's face. He was
white as chalk, the candle he held in his shaking hand was sputtering
onto the carpet, and his eyes, petrified with terror, or some such
kindred emotion, stared fixedly over my head at a point on the further
wall. It was as though he had seen something that turned him to stone.
I instinctively followed the direction of his eyes, but I could see
nothing unusual. The still feebly flickering ashes in the grate, and the
row of prim ornaments on the mantelpiece, were surely harmless enough.
The violence of Mrs. Inglethorp's attack seemed to be passing. She was
able to speak in short gasps.
"Better now--very sudden--stupid of me--to lock myself in."
A shadow fell on the bed and, looking up, I saw Mary Cavendish standing
near the door with her arm around Cynthia. She seemed to be supporting
the girl, who looked utterly dazed and unlike herself. Her face was
heavily flushed, and she yawned repeatedly.
