_Luckily the scandal was hushed up_: the phrase blazed out against
the dark background of Kate's misery. That was doubtless what most people
felt--the words represented the consensus of respectable opinion. The best
way of repairing a fault was to hide it: to tear up the floor and bury the
victim at night. Above all, no coroner and no autopsy!
She began to feel a strange interest in her distant cousin. "And his
wife--did she know what he had done?"
Mr. Orme stared. His moral pointed, he had returned to the contemplation of
his own affairs.
"His wife? Oh, of course not. The secret has been most admirably kept; but
her property was put in trust, so she's quite safe with him."
Her property! Kate wondered if her faith in her husband had also been
put in trust, if her sensibilities had been protected from his possible
inroads.
"Do you think it quite fair to have deceived her in that way?"
Mr. Orme gave her a puzzled glance: he had no taste for the by-paths of
ethical conjecture.
"His people wanted to give the poor fellow another chance; they did the
best they could for him."
"And--he has done nothing dishonourable since?"
"Not that I know of: the last I heard was that they had a little boy,
and that he was quite happy. At that distance he's not likely to bother
_us_, at all events."
Long after Mr. Orme had left the topic, Kate remained lost in its
contemplation. She had begun to perceive that the fair surface of life was
honeycombed by a vast system of moral sewage. Every respectable household
had its special arrangements for the private disposal of family scandals;
it was only among the reckless and improvident that such hygienic
precautions were neglected. Who was she to pass judgment on the merits
of such a system? The social health must be preserved: the means devised
were the result of long experience and the collective instinct of
self-preservation. She had meant to tell her father that evening that her
marriage had been put off; but she now abstained from doing so, not from
any doubt of Mr. Orme's acquiescence--he could always be made to feel the
force of conventional scruples--but because the whole question sank into
insignificance beside the larger issue which his words had raised.
In her own room, that night, she passed through that travail of the soul
of which the deeper life is born. Her first sense was of a great moral
loneliness--an isolation more complete, more impenetrable, than that in
which the discovery of Denis's act had plunged her. For she had vaguely
leaned, then, on a collective sense of justice that should respond to
her own ideas of right and wrong: she still believed in the logical
correspondence of theory and practice. Now she saw that, among those
nearest her, there was no one who recognized the moral need of expiation.
She saw that to take her father or Mrs. Peyton into her confidence would
be but to widen the circle of sterile misery in which she and Denis moved.
At first the aspect of life thus revealed to her seemed simply mean
and base--a world where honour was a pact of silence between adroit
accomplices. The network of circumstance had tightened round her, and every
effort to escape drew its meshes closer. But as her struggles subsided she
felt the spiritual release which comes with acceptance: not connivance in
dishonour, but recognition of evil. Out of that dark vision light was to
come, the shaft of cloud turning to the pillar of fire. For here, at last,
life lay before her as it was: not brave, garlanded and victorious, but
naked, grovelling and diseased, dragging its maimed limbs through the mud,
yet lifting piteous hands to the stars. Love itself, once throned aloft
on an altar of dreams, how it stole to her now, storm-beaten and scarred,
pleading for the shelter of her breast! Love, indeed, not in the old sense
in which she had conceived it, but a graver, austerer presence--the charity
of the mystic three. She thought she had ceased to love Denis--but what had
she loved in him but her happiness and his? Their affection had been the
_garden enclosed_ of the Canticles, where they were to walk forever in
a delicate isolation of bliss. But now love appeared to her as something
more than this--something wider, deeper, more enduring than the selfish
passion of a man and a woman. She saw it in all its far-reaching issues,
till the first meeting of two pairs of young eyes kindled a light which
might be a high-lifted beacon across dark waters of humanity.
