She broke off, shaken out of her habitual placidity by the abrupt
withdrawal of the girl's hands. Kate sat inertly staring, but no answer
rose to her lips.
At length Mrs. Peyton resumed, gathering her draperies about her with a
tentative hint of leave-taking: "I may go home and tell him that you will
not put off the wedding?"
Kate was still silent, and her visitor looked at her with the mild surprise
of an advocate unaccustomed to plead in vain.
"If your silence means refusal, my dear, I think you ought to realize the
responsibility you assume." Mrs. Peyton's voice had acquired an edge of
righteous asperity. "If Denis has a fault it is that he is too gentle, too
yielding, too readily influenced by those he cares for. Your influence is
paramount with him now--but if you turn from him just when he needs your
help, who can say what the result will be?"
The argument, though impressively delivered, was hardly of a nature to
carry conviction to its hearer; but it was perhaps for that very reason
that she suddenly and unexpectedly replied to it by sinking back into her
seat with a burst of tears. To Mrs. Peyton, however, tears were the signal
of surrender, and, at Kate's side in an instant she hastened to temper her
triumph with magnanimity.
"Don't think I don't feel with you; but we must both forget ourselves for
our boy's sake. I told him I should come back with your promise."
The arm she had slipped about Kate's shoulder fell back with the girl's
start. Kate had seen in a flash what capital would be made of her emotion.
"No, no, you misunderstand me. I can make no promise," she declared.
The older lady sat a moment irresolute; then she restored her arm to the
shoulder from which it had been so abruptly displaced.
"My dear child," she said, in a tone of tender confidence, "if I have
misunderstood you, ought you not to enlighten me? You asked me just now
if Denis had given me your reason for this strange postponement. He gave
me one reason, but it seems hardly sufficient to explain your conduct.
If there is any other,--and I know you well enough to feel sure there
is,--will you not trust me with it? If my boy has been unhappy enough to
displease you, will you not give his mother the chance to plead his cause?
Remember, no one should be condemned unheard. As Denis's mother, I have the
right to ask for your reason."
"My reason? My reason?" Kate stammered, panting with the exhaustion of the
struggle. Oh, if only Mrs. Peyton would release her! "If you have the right
to know it, why doesn't he tell you?" she cried.
Mrs. Peyton stood up, quivering. "I will go home and ask him," she said. "I
will tell him he had your permission to speak."
She moved toward the door, with the nervous haste of a person unaccustomed
to decisive action. But Kate sprang before her.
