If Miss Verney suspected a personal application in Dick's hospitality, it
did not call forth in her the usual tokens of self-consciousness. Her
manner may have been a shade more vivid than usual, but she preserved all
her bright composure of glance and speech, so that one guessed, under the
rapid dispersal of words, an undisturbed steadiness of perception. She
was lavishly but not indiscriminately interested in the evidences of her
host's industry, and as the other guests assembled, straying with vague
ejaculations through the labyrinth of scale drawings and blue prints, Mrs.
Peyton noted that Miss Verney alone knew what these symbols stood for.
To his visitors' requests to be shown his plans for the competition,
Peyton had opposed a laughing refusal, enforced by the presence of two
fellow-architects, young men with lingering traces of the Beaux Arts in
their costume and vocabulary, who stood about in Gavarni attitudes and
dazzled the ladies by allusions to fenestration and entasis. The party had
already drifted back to the tea-table when a hesitating knock announced
Darrow's approach. He entered with his usual air of having blundered in
by mistake, embarrassed by his hat and great-coat, and thrown into deeper
confusion by the necessity of being introduced to the ladies grouped about
the urn. To the men he threw a gruff nod of fellowship, and Dick having
relieved him of his encumbrances, he retreated behind the shelter of Mrs.
Peyton's welcome. The latter judiciously gave him time to recover, and when
she turned to him he was engaged in a surreptitious inspection of Miss
Verney, whose dusky slenderness, relieved against the bare walls of the
office, made her look like a young St. John of Donatello's. The girl
returned his look with one of her clear glances, and the group having
presently broken up again, Mrs. Peyton saw that she had drifted to Darrow's
side. The visitors at length wandered back to the work-room to see a
portfolio of Dick's water-colours; but Mrs. Peyton remained seated behind
the urn, listening to the interchange of talk through the open door while
she tried to coordinate her impressions.
She saw that Miss Verney was sincerely interested in Dick's work: it
was the nature of her interest that remained in doubt. As if to solve
this doubt, the girl presently reappeared alone on the threshold, and
discovering Mrs. Peyton, advanced toward her with a smile.
"Are you tired of hearing us praise Mr. Peyton's things?" she asked,
dropping into a low chair beside her hostess. "Unintelligent admiration
must be a bore to people who know, and Mr. Darrow tells me you are almost
as learned as your son."
Mrs. Peyton returned the smile, but evaded the question. "I should be sorry
to think your admiration unintelligent," she said. "I like to feel that my
boy's work is appreciated by people who understand it."
"Oh, I have the usual smattering," said Miss Verney carelessly. "I
_think_ I know why I admire his work; but then I am sure I see more in
it when some one like Mr. Darrow tells me how remarkable it is."
