Life was going on, then, and dragging her at its wheels. She could
neither check its rush nor wrench loose from it and drop out--oh, how
blessedly--into darkness and cessation. She must go bounding on, racked,
broken, but alive in every fibre. The most she could hope was a few hours'
respite, not from her own terrors, but from the pressure of outward claims:
the midday halt, during which the victim is unbound while his torturers
rest from their efforts. Till her father's return she would have the house
to herself, and, the question of the venison despatched, could give herself
to long lonely pacings of the empty rooms, and shuddering subsidences upon
her pillow.
Her first impulse, as the mist cleared from her brain, was the habitual one
of reaching out for ultimate relations. She wanted to know the worst; and
for her, as she saw in a flash, the worst of it was the core of fatality
in what had happened. She shrank from her own way of putting it--nor was
it even figuratively true that she had ever felt, under faith in Denis,
any such doubt as the perception implied. But that was merely because her
imagination had never put him to the test. She was fond of exposing herself
to hypothetical ordeals, but somehow she had never carried Denis with her
on these adventures. What she saw now was that, in a world of strangeness,
he remained the object least strange to her. She was not in the tragic case
of the girl who suddenly sees her lover unmasked. No mask had dropped from
Denis's face: the pink shades had simply been lifted from the lamps, and
she saw him for the first time in an unmitigated glare.
Such exposure does not alter the features, but it lays an ugly emphasis
on the most charming lines, pushing the smile to a grin, the curve of
good-nature to the droop of slackness. And it was precisely into the
flagging lines of extreme weakness that Denis's graceful contour flowed.
In the terrible talk which had followed his avowal, and wherein every word
flashed a light on his moral processes, she had been less startled by what
he had done than by the way in which his conscience had already become a
passive surface for the channelling of consequences. He was like a child
who had put a match to the curtains, and stands agape at the blaze.
It was horribly naughty to put the match--but beyond that the child's
responsibility did not extend. In this business of Arthur's, where all had
been wrong from the beginning--where self-defence might well find a plea
for its casuistries in the absence of a definite right to be measured
by--it had been easy, after the first slip, to drop a little lower with
each struggle. The woman--oh, the woman was--well, of the kind who prey on
such men. Arthur, out there, at his lowest ebb, had drifted into living
with her as a man drifts into drink or opium. He knew what she was--he
knew where she had come from. But he had fallen ill, and she had nursed
him--nursed him devotedly, of course. That was her chance, and she knew it.
Before he was out of the fever she had the noose around him--he came to and
found himself married. Such cases were common enough--if the man recovered
he bought off the woman and got a divorce. It was all a part of the
business--the marriage, the bribe, the divorce. Some of those women made a
big income out of it--they were married and divorced once a year. If Arthur
had only got well--but, instead, he had a relapse and died. And there was
the woman, made his widow by mischance as it were, with her child on her
arm--whose child?--and a scoundrelly black-mailing lawyer to work up her
case for her. Her claim was clear enough--the right of dower, a third of
his estate. But if he had never meant to marry her? If he had been trapped
as patently as a rustic fleeced in a gambling-hell? Arthur, in his last
hours, had confessed to the marriage, but had also acknowledged its folly.
And after his death, when Denis came to look about him and make inquiries,
he found that the witnesses, if there had been any, were dispersed and
undiscoverable. The whole question hinged on Arthur's statement to his
brother. Suppress that statement, and the claim vanished, and with it the
scandal, the humiliation, the life-long burden of the woman and child
dragging the name of Peyton through heaven knew what depths. He had thought
of that first, Denis swore, rather than of the money. The money, of course,
had made a difference,--he was too honest not to own it--but not till
afterward, he declared--would have declared on his honour, but that the
word tripped him up, and sent a flush to his forehead.
