For an hour and a half he had been talking steadily, putting his case
to the District Attorney. Luckily he had a speaking acquaintance with
Allonby, and had obtained, without much difficulty, a private audience
on the very day after his talk with Robert Denver. In the interval
between he had hurried home, got out of his evening clothes, and gone
forth again at once into the dreary dawn. His fear of Ascham and the
alienist made it impossible for him to remain in his rooms. And it
seemed to him that the only way of averting that hideous peril was by
establishing, in some sane impartial mind, the proof of his guilt. Even
if he had not been so incurably sick of life, the electric chair seemed
now the only alternative to the strait-jacket.
As he paused to wipe his forehead he saw the District Attorney glance at
his watch. The gesture was significant, and Granice lifted an appealing
hand. "I don't expect you to believe me now--but can't you put me under
arrest, and have the thing looked into?"
Allonby smiled faintly under his heavy grayish moustache. He had a ruddy
face, full and jovial, in which his keen professional eyes seemed to
keep watch over impulses not strictly professional.
"Well, I don't know that we need lock you up just yet. But of course I'm
bound to look into your statement--"
Granice rose with an exquisite sense of relief. Surely Allonby wouldn't
have said that if he hadn't believed him!
"That's all right. Then I needn't detain you. I can be found at any time
at my apartment." He gave the address.
The District Attorney smiled again, more openly. "What do you say to
leaving it for an hour or two this evening? I'm giving a little supper
at Rector's--quiet, little affair, you understand: just Miss Melrose--I
think you know her--and a friend or two; and if you'll join us..."
Granice stumbled out of the office without knowing what reply he had
made.
He waited for four days--four days of concentrated horror. During the
first twenty-four hours the fear of Ascham's alienist dogged him; and as
that subsided, it was replaced by the exasperating sense that his avowal
had made no impression on the District Attorney. Evidently, if he had
been going to look into the case, Allonby would have been heard from
before now. ... And that mocking invitation to supper showed clearly
enough how little the story had impressed him!
Granice was overcome by the futility of any farther attempt to inculpate
himself. He was chained to life--a "prisoner of consciousness." Where
was it he had read the phrase? Well, he was learning what it meant. In
the glaring night-hours, when his brain seemed ablaze, he was visited
by a sense of his fixed identity, of his irreducible, inexpugnable
_selfness_, keener, more insidious, more unescapable, than any sensation
he had ever known. He had not guessed that the mind was capable of such
intricacies of self-realization, of penetrating so deep into its own
dark windings. Often he woke from his brief snatches of sleep with the
feeling that something material was clinging to him, was on his hands
and face, and in his throat--and as his brain cleared he understood that
it was the sense of his own loathed personality that stuck to him like
some thick viscous substance.
