The two men grasped hands, and Denver, feeling for his latch-key,
ushered Granice into the brightly-lit hall.
"Disturb me? Not a bit. You might have, at ten to-morrow morning ... but
this is my liveliest hour ... you know my habits of old."
Granice had known Robert Denver for fifteen years--watched his rise
through all the stages of journalism to the Olympian pinnacle of the
_Investigator's_ editorial office. In the thick-set man with grizzling
hair there were few traces left of the hungry-eyed young reporter who,
on his way home in the small hours, used to "bob in" on Granice, while
the latter sat grinding at his plays. Denver had to pass Granice's flat
on the way to his own, and it became a habit, if he saw a light in the
window, and Granice's shadow against the blind, to go in, smoke a pipe,
and discuss the universe.
"Well--this is like old times--a good old habit reversed." The editor
smote his visitor genially on the shoulder. "Reminds me of the nights
when I used to rout you out... How's the play, by the way? There _is_
a play, I suppose? It's as safe to ask you that as to say to some men:
'How's the baby?'"
Denver laughed good-naturedly, and Granice thought how thick and heavy
he had grown. It was evident, even to Granice's tortured nerves, that
the words had not been uttered in malice--and the fact gave him a new
measure of his insignificance. Denver did not even know that he had been
a failure! The fact hurt more than Ascham's irony.
"Come in--come in." The editor led the way into a small cheerful room,
where there were cigars and decanters. He pushed an arm-chair toward his
visitor, and dropped into another with a comfortable groan.
"Now, then--help yourself. And let's hear all about it."
He beamed at Granice over his pipe-bowl, and the latter, lighting his
cigar, said to himself: "Success makes men comfortable, but it makes
them stupid."
Then he turned, and began: "Denver, I want to tell you--"
The clock ticked rhythmically on the mantel-piece. The room was
gradually filled with drifting blue layers of smoke, and through them
the editor's face came and went like the moon through a moving sky. Once
the hour struck--then the rhythmical ticking began again. The atmosphere
grew denser and heavier, and beads of perspiration began to roll from
Granice's forehead.
"Do you mind if I open the window?"
"No. It _is_ stuffy in here. Wait--I'll do it myself." Denver pushed
down the upper sash, and returned to his chair. "Well--go on," he said,
filling another pipe. His composure exasperated Granice.
"There's no use in my going on if you don't believe me."
The editor remained unmoved. "Who says I don't believe you? And how can
I tell till you've finished?"
Granice went on, ashamed of his outburst. "It was simple enough, as
you'll see. From the day the old man said to me, 'Those Italians would
murder you for a quarter,' I dropped everything and just worked at
my scheme. It struck me at once that I must find a way of getting to
Wrenfield and back in a night--and that led to the idea of a motor. A
motor--that never occurred to you? You wonder where I got the money, I
suppose. Well, I had a thousand or so put by, and I nosed around till I
found what I wanted--a second-hand racer. I knew how to drive a car,
and I tried the thing and found it was all right. Times were bad, and I
bought it for my price, and stored it away. Where? Why, in one of those
no-questions-asked garages where they keep motors that are not for
family use. I had a lively cousin who had put me up to that dodge, and I
looked about till I found a queer hole where they took in my car like a
baby in a foundling asylum... Then I practiced running to Wrenfield and
back in a night. I knew the way pretty well, for I'd done it often with
the same lively cousin--and in the small hours, too. The distance is
over ninety miles, and on the third trial I did it under two hours. But
my arms were so lame that I could hardly get dressed the next morning...
