The Winchers, it appeared, found themselves at Potash Springs merely
because a severe illness of Mrs. Wincher's had made it impossible, at
the last moment, to move her farther from Washington. They had let their
house on the North Shore, and as soon as they could leave "this dreadful
hole" were going to Europe for the autumn. Miss Wincher simply didn't
know how she got through the days; though no doubt it was as good as
a rest-cure after the rush of the winter. Of course they would have
preferred to hire a house, but the "hole," if one could believe it,
didn't offer one; so they had simply shut themselves off as best
they could from the "hotel crew"--had her friend, Miss Wincher
parenthetically asked, happened to notice the Sunday young men? They
were queerer even than the "belles" they came for--and had escaped the
promiscuity of the dinner-hour by turning one of their rooms into a
dining-room, and picnicking there--with the Persimmon House standards,
one couldn't describe it in any other way! But luckily the awful place
was doing mamma good, and now they had nearly served their term...
Undine turned sick as she listened. Only the evening before she had
gone on a "buggy-ride" with a young gentleman from Deposit--a dentist's
assistant--and had let him kiss her, and given him the flower from her
hair. She loathed the thought of him now: she loathed all the people
about her, and most of all the disdainful Miss Wincher. It enraged her
to think that the Winchers classed her with the "hotel crew"--with the
"belles" who awaited their Sunday young men. The place was forever
blighted for her, and the next week she dragged her amazed but thankful
parents back to Apex.
But Miss Wincher's depreciatory talk had opened ampler vistas, and the
pioneer blood in Undine would not let her rest. She had heard the call
of the Atlantic seaboard, and the next summer found the Spraggs at Skog
Harbour, Maine. Even now Undine felt a shiver of boredom as she recalled
it. That summer had been the worst of all. The bare wind-beaten inn, all
shingles without and blueberry pie within, was "exclusive," parochial,
Bostonian; and the Spraggs wore through the interminable weeks in blank
unmitigated isolation. The incomprehensible part of it was that every
other woman in the hotel was plain, dowdy or elderly--and most of them
all three. If there had been any competition on ordinary lines Undine
would have won, as Van Degen said, "hands down." But there wasn't--the
other "guests" simply formed a cold impenetrable group who walked,
boated, played golf, and discussed Christian Science and the Subliminal,
unaware of the tremulous organism drifting helplessly against their
rock-bound circle.
It was on the day the Spraggs left Skog Harbour that Undine vowed to
herself with set lips: "I'll never try anything again till I try New
York." Now she had gained her point and tried New York, and so far, it
seemed, with no better success. From small things to great, everything
went against her. In such hours of self-searching she was ready enough
to acknowledge her own mistakes, but they exasperated her less than the
blunders of her parents. She was sure, for instance, that she was on
what Mrs. Heeny called "the right tack" at last: yet just at the moment
when her luck seemed about to turn she was to be thwarted by her
father's stupid obstinacy about the opera-box...
