Now, Father, I believe it was this penance that drove me to sin. For we
were in the dog-days, and it was more than flesh could bear. And on the
third night, after the portress had passed, and the lights were out, I
rose and flung off my veil and gown, and knelt in my window fainting.
There was no moon, but the sky was full of stars. At first the garden
was all blackness; but as I looked I saw a faint twinkle between the
cypress-trunks, and I knew it was the starlight on the tank. The water!
The water! It was there close to me--only a few bolts and bars were
between us.
The portress was a heavy sleeper, and I knew where her keys hung, on a
nail just within the door of her cell. I stole thither, unlatched the
door, seized the keys and crept barefoot down the corridor. The bolts
of the cloister-door were stiff and heavy, and I dragged at them till
the veins in my wrists were bursting. Then I turned the key and it
cried out in the ward. I stood still, my whole body beating with fear
lest the hinges too should have a voice--but no one stirred, and I
pushed open the door and slipped out. The garden was as airless as a
pit, but at least I could stretch my arms in it; and, oh, my Father,
the sweetness of the stars! The stones in the path cut my feet as I
ran, but I thought of the joy of bathing them in the tank, and that
made the wounds sweet to me.... My Father, I have heard of the
temptations which in times past assailed the holy Solitaries of the
desert, flattering the reluctant flesh beyond resistance; but none, I
think, could have surpassed in ecstasy that first touch of the water on
my limbs. To prolong the joy I let myself slip in slowly, resting my
hands on the edge of the tank, and smiling to see my body, as I lowered
it, break up the shining black surface and shatter the starbeams into
splinters. And the water, my Father, seemed to crave me as I craved it.
Its ripples rose about me, first in furtive touches, then in a long
embrace that clung and drew me down; till at length they lay like
kisses on my lips. It was no frank comrade like the mountain pools of
my childhood, but a secret playmate compassionating my pains and
soothing them with noiseless hands. From the first I thought of it as
an accomplice--its whisper seemed to promise me secrecy if I would
promise it love. And I went back and back to it, my Father; all day I
lived in the thought of it; each night I stole to it with fresh
thirst....
But at length the old portress died, and a young lay-sister took her
place. She was a light sleeper, and keen-eared; and I knew the danger
of venturing to her cell. I knew the danger, but when darkness came I
felt the water drawing me. The first night I fought on my bed and held
out; but the second I crept to her door. She made no motion when I
entered, but rose up secretly and stole after me; and the second night
she warned the Abbess, and the two came on me as I stood by the tank.
