"Oh--" Mrs. Welland murmured, while the young man, smiling at his
betrothed, replied:  "As soon as ever it can, if only you'll back me
up, Mrs. Mingott."
"We must give them time to get to know each other a little better,
mamma," Mrs. Welland interposed, with the proper affectation of
reluctance; to which the ancestress rejoined:  "Know each other?
Fiddlesticks!  Everybody in New York has always known everybody.  Let
the young man have his way, my dear; don't wait till the bubble's off
the wine.  Marry them before Lent; I may catch pneumonia any winter
now, and I want to give the wedding-breakfast."
These successive statements were received with the proper expressions
of amusement, incredulity and gratitude; and the visit was breaking up
in a vein of mild pleasantry when the door opened to admit the Countess
Olenska, who entered in bonnet and mantle followed by the unexpected
figure of Julius Beaufort.
There was a cousinly murmur of pleasure between the ladies, and Mrs.
Mingott held out Ferrigiani's model to the banker.  "Ha!  Beaufort,
this is a rare favour!" (She had an odd foreign way of addressing men
by their surnames.)
"Thanks.  I wish it might happen oftener," said the visitor in his easy
arrogant way.  "I'm generally so tied down; but I met the Countess
Ellen in Madison Square, and she was good enough to let me walk home
with her."
"Ah--I hope the house will be gayer, now that Ellen's here!" cried Mrs.
Mingott with a glorious effrontery.  "Sit down--sit down, Beaufort:
push up the yellow armchair; now I've got you I want a good gossip.  I
hear your ball was magnificent; and I understand you invited Mrs.
Lemuel Struthers?  Well--I've a curiosity to see the woman myself."
She had forgotten her relatives, who were drifting out into the hall
under Ellen Olenska's guidance.  Old Mrs. Mingott had always professed
a great admiration for Julius Beaufort, and there was a kind of kinship
in their cool domineering way and their short-cuts through the
conventions.  Now she was eagerly curious to know what had decided the
Beauforts to invite (for the first time) Mrs. Lemuel Struthers, the
widow of Struthers's Shoe-polish, who had returned the previous year
from a long initiatory sojourn in Europe to lay siege to the tight
little citadel of New York.  "Of course if you and Regina invite her
the thing is settled.  Well, we need new blood and new money--and I
hear she's still very good-looking," the carnivorous old lady declared.
In the hall, while Mrs. Welland and May drew on their furs, Archer saw
that the Countess Olenska was looking at him with a faintly questioning
smile.
"Of course you know already--about May and me," he said, answering her
look with a shy laugh.  "She scolded me for not giving you the news
last night at the Opera: I had her orders to tell you that we were
engaged--but I couldn't, in that crowd."
The smile passed from Countess Olenska's eyes to her lips: she looked
younger, more like the bold brown Ellen Mingott of his boyhood.  "Of
course I know; yes.  And I'm so glad.  But one doesn't tell such things
first in a crowd."  The ladies were on the threshold and she held out
her hand.
