"Oh, come, come," Dresham judicially interposed; "after all, they're not
love-letters."
"No--that's the worst of it; they're unloved letters," Mrs. Touchett
retorted.
"Then, obviously, she needn't have written them; whereas the man, poor
devil, could hardly help receiving them."
"Perhaps he counted on the public to save him the trouble of reading
them," said young Hartly, who was in the cynical stage.
Mrs. Armiger turned her reproachful loveliness to Dresham. "From the way
you defend him, I believe you know who he is."
Everyone looked at Dresham, and his wife smiled with the superior air of
the woman who is in her husband's professional secrets. Dresham shrugged
his shoulders.
"What have I said to defend him?"
"You called him a poor devil--you pitied him."
"A man who could let Margaret Aubyn write to him in that way? Of course
I pity him."
"Then you MUST know who he is," cried Mrs. Armiger, with a triumphant
air of penetration.
Hartly and Flamel laughed and Dresham shook his head. "No one knows; not
even the publishers; so they tell me at least."
"So they tell you to tell us," Hartly astutely amended; and Mrs. Armiger
added, with the appearance of carrying the argument a point farther,
"But even if HE'S dead and SHE'S dead, somebody must have given the
letters to the publishers."
"A little bird, probably," said Dresham, smiling indulgently on her
deduction.
"A little bird of prey then--a vulture, I should say--" another man
interpolated.
"Oh, I'm not with you there," said Dresham, easily. "Those letters
belonged to the public."
"How can any letters belong to the public that weren't written to the
public?" Mrs. Touchett interposed.
"Well, these were, in a sense. A personality as big as Margaret Aubyn's
belongs to the world. Such a mind is part of the general fund of
thought. It's the penalty of greatness--one becomes a monument
historique. Posterity pays the cost of keeping one up, but on condition
that one is always open to the public."
"I don't see that that exonerates the man who gives up the keys of the
sanctuary, as it were."
"Who WAS he?" another voice inquired.
"Who was he? Oh, nobody, I fancy--the letter-box, the slit in the wall
through which the letters passed to posterity...."
"But she never meant them for posterity!"
"A woman shouldn't write such letters if she doesn't mean them to be
published...."
"She shouldn't write them to such a man!" Mrs. Touchett scornfully
corrected.
"I never keep letters," said Mrs. Armiger, under the obvious impression
that she was contributing a valuable point to the discussion.
There was a general laugh, and Flamel, who had not spoken, said, lazily,
"You women are too incurably subjective. I venture to say that most men
would see in those letters merely their immense literary value, their
significance as documents. The personal side doesn't count where there's
so much else."
"Oh, we all know you haven't any principles," Mrs. Armiger declared; and
Alexa Glennard, lifting an indolent smile, said: "I shall never write
you a love-letter, Mr. Flamel."
