"You were in love," sighed Therese. Why the sigh she could not have
told.
"I presume so. Well, after that, I found myself thinking of her at the
most inopportune moments. I went to see her again and again--my first
impression deepened, and in two weeks I had asked her to marry me. I
can safely say, we knew nothing of each other's character. After
marriage, matters went well enough for a while." Hosmer here arose,
and walked the length of the room.
"Mrs. Lafirme," he said, "can't you understand that it must be a
painful thing for a man to disparage one woman to another: the woman
who has been his wife to the woman he loves? Spare me the rest."
"Please have no reservations with me; I shall not misjudge you in any
case," an inexplicable something was moving her to know what remained
to be told.
"It wasn't long before she attempted to draw me into what she called
society," Hosmer continued. "I am little versed in defining shades of
distinction between classes, but I had seen from the beginning that
Fanny's associates were not of the best social rank by any means. I
had vaguely expected her to turn from them, I suppose, when she
married. Naturally, I resisted anything so distasteful as being
dragged through rounds of amusement that had no sort of attraction
whatever for me. Besides, my business connections were extending, and
they claimed the greater part of my time and thoughts.
"A year after our marriage our boy was born." Here Hosmer ceased
speaking for a while, seemingly under pressure of a crowding of
painful memories.
"The child whose picture you have at the office?" asked Therese.
"Yes," and he resumed with plain effort: "It seemed for a while that
the baby would give its mother what distraction she sought so
persistently away from home; but its influence did not last and she
soon grew as restless as before. Finally there was nothing that united
us except the child. I can't really say that we were united through
him, but our love for the boy was the one feeling that we had in
common. When he was three years old, he died. Melicent had come to
live with us after leaving school. She was a high-spirited girl full
of conceits as she is now, and in her exaggerated way became filled
with horror of what she called the mesalliance I had made. After a
month she went away to live with friends. I didn't oppose her. I saw
little of my wife, being often away from home; but as feebly observant
as I was, I had now and again marked a peculiarity of manner about her
that vaguely troubled me. She seemed to avoid me and we grew more and
more divided.
"One day I returned home rather early. Melicent was with me. We found
Fanny in the dining-room lying on the sofa. As we entered, she looked
at us wildly and in striving to get up grasped aimlessly at the back
of a chair. I felt on a sudden as if there were some awful calamity
threatening my existence. I suppose, I looked helplessly at Melicent,
managing to ask her what was the matter with my wife. Melicent's black
eyes were flashing indignation. 'Can't you see she's been drinking.
God help you,' she said. Mrs. Lafirme, you know now the reason which
drove me away from home and kept me away. I never permitted my wife to
want for the comforts of life during my absence; but she sued for
divorce some years ago and it was granted, with alimony which I
doubled. You know the miserable story now. Pardon me for dragging it
to such a length. I don't see why I should have told it after all."
