"Mademoiselle," began Laballiere at once, "I have taken the liberty of
bringing a new pupil to you."
Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph paled suddenly and her voice was
unsteady when she replied:--
"You are too considerate, Monsieur. Will you be so kine to give me the
name of the scholar whom you desire to int'oduce into this school?" She
knew it as well as he.
"What's your name, youngster? Out with it!" cried Laballiere, striving
to shake the little free mulatto into speech; but he stayed as dumb as
a mummy.
"His name is Andre Giestin. You know him. He is the son"--
"Then, Monsieur," she interrupted, "permit me to remine you that you
have made a se'ious mistake. This is not a school conducted fo' the
education of the colored population. You will have to go elsew'ere with
yo' protege."
"I shall leave my protege right here, Mademoiselle,'and I trust you'll
give him the same kind attention you seem to accord to the others;"
saying which Laballiere bowed himself out of her presence. The little
Giestin, left to his own devices, took only the time to give a quick,
wary glance round the room, and the next instant he bounded through the
open door, as the nimblest of four-footed creatures might have done.
Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph conducted school during the hours that
remained, with a deliberate calmness that would have seemed ominous to
her pupils, had they been better versed in the ways of young women.
When the hour for dismissal came, she rapped upon the table to demand
attention.
"Chil'ren," she began, assuming a resigned and dignified mien, "you all
have been witness to-day of the insult that has been offered to yo'
teacher by the person upon whose lan' this schoolhouse stan's. I have
nothing further to say on that subjec'. I only shall add that to-morrow
yo' teacher shall sen' the key of this schoolhouse, together with her
resignation, to the gentlemen who compose the school-boa'd." There
followed visible disturbance among the young people.
"I ketch that li'le m'latta, I make 'im see sight', yas," screamed one.
"Nothing of the kine, Mathurin, you mus' take no such step, if only out
of consideration fo' my wishes. The person who has offered the affront
I consider beneath my notice. Andre, on the other han', is a chile of
good impulse, an' by no means to blame. As you all perceive, he has
shown mo' taste and judgment than those above him, f'om whom we might
have espected good breeding, at least."
She kissed them all, the little boys and the little girls, and
had a kind word for each. "_Et toi, mon petit Numa, j'espere q'un
autre_"--She could not finish the sentence, for little Numa, her
favorite, to whom she had never been able to impart the first word
of English, was blubbering at a turn of affairs which he had only
miserably guessed at.
She locked the schoolhouse door and walked away towards the bridge. By
the time she reached it, the little 'Cadians had already disappeared
like rabbits, down the road and through and over the fences.
