"Lordy! w'at you reckon he do ef he tu'n roun' an' git mad wid dat
young gemman f'om de city?"
"I don' reckon nuttin'; I knows w'at he gwine do,--same w'at his pa
done."
"W'at his pa done, La Chatte?"
"G' 'long 'bout yo' business; you's axin' too many questions." And La
Chatte arose slowly and went to gather her party-colored wash that hung
drying on the jagged and irregular points of a dilapidated picket-fence.
But the darkies were mistaken in supposing that Offdean was paying
attention to Euphrasie. Those little jaunts in the wood were purely of
a business character. Offdean had made a contract with a neighboring
mill for fencing, in exchange for a certain amount of uncut timber. He
had made it his work--with the assistance of Euphrasie--to decide upon
what trees he wanted felled, and to mark such for the woodman's axe.
If they sometimes forgot what they had gone into the woods for, it was
because there was so much to talk about and to laugh about. Often, when
Offdean had blazed a tree with the sharp hatchet which he carried at
his pommel, and had further discharged his duty by calling it "a fine
piece of timber," they would sit upon some fallen and decaying trunk,
maybe to listen to a chorus of mocking-birds above their heads, or to
exchange confidences, as young people will.
Euphrasie thought she had never heard any one talk quite so pleasantly
as Offdean did. She could not decide whether it was his manner or the
tone of his voice, or the earnest glance of his dark and deep-set blue
eyes, that gave such meaning to everything he said; for she found
herself afterward thinking of his every word.
One afternoon it rained in torrents, and Rose was forced to drag
buckets and tubs into Offdean's room to catch the streams that
threatened to flood it. Euphrasie said she was glad of it; now he could
see for himself.
And when he had seen for himself, he went to join her out on a corner
of the gallery, where she stood with a cloak around her, close up
against the house. He leaned against the house, too, and they stood
thus together, gazing upon as desolate a scene as it is easy to imagine.
The whole landscape was gray, seen through the driving rain. Far away
the dreary cabins seemed to sink and sink to earth in abject misery.
Above their heads the live-oak branches were beating with sad monotony
against the blackened roof. Great pools of water had formed in the
yard, which was deserted by every living thing; for the little darkies
had scampered away to their cabins, the dogs had run to their kennels,
and the hens were puffing big with wretchedness under the scanty
shelter of a fallen wagon-body.
Certainly a situation to make a young man groan with ennui, if he is
used to his daily stroll on Canal Street, and pleasant afternoons at
the club. But Offdean thought it delightful. He only wondered that he
had never known, or some one had never told him, how charming a place
an old, dismantled plantation can be--when it rains. But as well as he
liked it, he could not linger there forever. Business called him back
to New Orleans, and after a few days he went away.
