Suzanne coughed more affectedly than was quite nice, and patted her
glossy braids. "The message, if you please, Mr. Laballiere."
"To be sure," pulling himself together from the momentary abstraction
into which he had fallen in contemplating her. "Well, it's just this;
your mother, you must know, has been good enough to sell me a fine bit
of land--a deep strip along the bayou"--
"Impossible! _Mais_, w'at sorcery did you use to obtain such a thing of
my mother, Mr. Laballiere? Lan' that has been in the St. Denys Godolph
family since time untole!"
"No sorcery whatever, Mademoiselle, only an appeal to your mother's
intelligence and common sense; and she is well supplied with both. She
wishes me to say, further, that she desires your presence very urgently
and your immediate return home."
"My mother is unduly impatient, surely," replied Suzanne, with chilling
politeness.
"May I ask, mademoiselle," he broke in, with an abruptness that was
startling, "the name of the man with whom you were walking this
afternoon?"
She looked at him with unaffected astonishment, and told him: "I hardly
understan' yo' question. That gentleman is Mr. Hector Santien, of
one of the firs' families of Natchitoches; a warm ole frien' an' far
distant relative of mine."
"Oh, that's his name, is it, Hector Santien? Well, please don't walk
on the New Orleans streets again with Mr. Hector Santien."
"Yo' remarks would be insulting if they were not so highly amusing, Mr.
Laballiere."
"I beg your pardon if I am insulting; and I have no desire to be
amusing," and then Laballiere lost his head. "You are at liberty to
walk the streets with whom you please, of course," he blurted, with
ill-suppressed passion, "but if I encounter Mr. Hector Santien in your
company again, in public, I shall wring his neck, then and there, as
I would a chicken; I shall break every bone in his body"--Suzanne had
arisen.
"You have said enough, sir. I even desire no explanation of yo' words."
"I did n't intend to explain them," he retorted, stung by the
insinuation.
"You will escuse me further," she requested icily, motioning to retire.
"Not till--oh, not till you have forgiven me," he cried impulsively,
barring her exit; for repentance had come swiftly this time.
But she did not forgive him. "I can wait," she said. Then he stepped
aside and she passed by him without a second glance.
She sent word to Hector the following day to come to her. And when he
was there, in the late afternoon, they walked together to the end of
the vine-sheltered gallery,--where the air was redolent with the odor
of spring blossoms.
"Hector," she began, after a while, "some one has told me I should not
be seen upon the streets of New Orleans with you."
He was trimming a long rose-stem with his sharp penknife. He did not
stop nor start, nor look embarrassed, nor anything of the sort.
"Indeed!" he said.
"But, you know," she went on, "if the saints came down from heaven to
tell me there was a reason for it, I could n't believe them."
