A kindred error is the separation of the phonetic from the mental
element of language; they are really inseparable--no definite line can
be drawn between them, any more than in any other common act of mind
and body. It is true that within certain limits we possess the power of
varying sounds by opening and closing the mouth, by touching the palate
or the teeth with the tongue, by lengthening or shortening the vocal
instrument, by greater or less stress, by a higher or lower pitch of the
voice, and we can substitute one note or accent for another. But behind
the organs of speech and their action there remains the informing mind,
which sets them in motion and works together with them. And behind the
great structure of human speech and the lesser varieties of language
which arise out of the many degrees and kinds of human intercourse,
there is also the unknown or over-ruling law of God or nature which
gives order to it in its infinite greatness, and variety in its
infinitesimal minuteness--both equally inscrutable to us. We need no
longer discuss whether philology is to be classed with the Natural or
the Mental sciences, if we frankly recognize that, like all the sciences
which are concerned with man, it has a double aspect,--inward and
outward; and that the inward can only be known through the outward.
Neither need we raise the question whether the laws of language, like
the other laws of human action, admit of exceptions. The answer in
all cases is the same--that the laws of nature are uniform, though the
consistency or continuity of them is not always perceptible to us. The
superficial appearances of language, as of nature, are irregular, but
we do not therefore deny their deeper uniformity. The comparison of the
growth of language in the individual and in the nation cannot be wholly
discarded, for nations are made up of individuals. But in this, as in
the other political sciences, we must distinguish between collective
and individual actions or processes, and not attribute to the one
what belongs to the other. Again, when we speak of the hereditary or
paternity of a language, we must remember that the parents are alive
as well as the children, and that all the preceding generations survive
(after a manner) in the latest form of it. And when, for the purposes of
comparison, we form into groups the roots or terminations of words, we
should not forget how casual is the manner in which their resemblances
have arisen--they were not first written down by a grammarian in the
paradigms of a grammar and learned out of a book, but were due to many
chance attractions of sound or of meaning, or of both combined. So many
cautions have to be borne in mind, and so many first thoughts to be
dismissed, before we can proceed safely in the path of philological
enquiry. It might be well sometimes to lay aside figures of speech, such
as the 'root' and the 'branches,' the 'stem,' the 'strata' of Geology,
the 'compounds' of Chemistry, 'the ripe fruit of pronouns dropping from
verbs' (see above), and the like, which are always interesting, but are
apt to be delusive. Yet such figures of speech are far nearer the truth
than the theories which attribute the invention and improvement of
language to the conscious action of the human mind...Lastly, it is
doubted by recent philologians whether climate can be supposed to have
exercised any influence worth speaking of on a language: such a view is
said to be unproven: it had better therefore not be silently assumed.
