'I should be more readily persuaded, if you would show me this natural
correctness of names.'
Indeed I cannot; but I see that you have advanced; for you now admit
that there is a correctness of names, and that not every one can give
a name. But what is the nature of this correctness or truth, you must
learn from the Sophists, of whom your brother Callias has bought his
reputation for wisdom rather dearly; and since they require to be paid,
you, having no money, had better learn from him at second-hand. 'Well,
but I have just given up Protagoras, and I should be inconsistent in
going to learn of him.' Then if you reject him you may learn of the
poets, and in particular of Homer, who distinguishes the names given by
Gods and men to the same things, as in the verse about the river God
who fought with Hephaestus, 'whom the Gods call Xanthus, and men call
Scamander;' or in the lines in which he mentions the bird which the
Gods call 'Chalcis,' and men 'Cymindis;' or the hill which men call
'Batieia,' and the Gods 'Myrinna's Tomb.' Here is an important lesson;
for the Gods must of course be right in their use of names. And this is
not the only truth about philology which may be learnt from Homer. Does
he not say that Hector's son had two names--
'Hector called him Scamandrius, but the others Astyanax'?
Now, if the men called him Astyanax, is it not probable that the
other name was conferred by the women? And which are more likely to be
right--the wiser or the less wise, the men or the women? Homer evidently
agreed with the men: and of the name given by them he offers an
explanation;--the boy was called Astyanax ('king of the city'), because
his father saved the city. The names Astyanax and Hector, moreover, are
really the same,--the one means a king, and the other is 'a holder or
possessor.' For as the lion's whelp may be called a lion, or the horse's
foal a foal, so the son of a king may be called a king. But if the
horse had produced a calf, then that would be called a calf. Whether the
syllables of a name are the same or not makes no difference, provided
the meaning is retained. For example; the names of letters, whether
vowels or consonants, do not correspond to their sounds, with the
exception of epsilon, upsilon, omicron, omega. The name Beta has three
letters added to the sound--and yet this does not alter the sense of the
word, or prevent the whole name having the value which the legislator
intended. And the same may be said of a king and the son of a king,
who like other animals resemble each other in the course of nature;
the words by which they are signified may be disguised, and yet amid
differences of sound the etymologist may recognise the same notion, just
as the physician recognises the power of the same drugs under different
disguises of colour and smell. Hector and Astyanax have only one letter
alike, but they have the same meaning; and Agis (leader) is altogether
different in sound from Polemarchus (chief in war), or Eupolemus (good
warrior); but the two words present the same idea of leader or general,
like the words Iatrocles and Acesimbrotus, which equally denote a
physician. The son succeeds the father as the foal succeeds the horse,
but when, out of the course of nature, a prodigy occurs, and the
offspring no longer resembles the parent, then the names no longer
agree. This may be illustrated by the case of Agamemnon and his son
Orestes, of whom the former has a name significant of his patience at
the siege of Troy; while the name of the latter indicates his savage,
man-of-the-mountain nature. Atreus again, for his murder of Chrysippus,
and his cruelty to Thyestes, is rightly named Atreus, which, to the
eye of the etymologist, is ateros (destructive), ateires (stubborn),
atreotos (fearless); and Pelops is o ta pelas oron (he who sees what
is near only), because in his eagerness to win Hippodamia, he was
unconscious of the remoter consequences which the murder of Myrtilus
would entail upon his race. The name Tantalus, if slightly changed,
offers two etymologies; either apo tes tou lithou talanteias, or apo tou
talantaton einai, signifying at once the hanging of the stone over
his head in the world below, and the misery which he brought upon his
country. And the name of his father, Zeus, Dios, Zenos, has an excellent
meaning, though hard to be understood, because really a sentence which
is divided into two parts (Zeus, Dios). For he, being the lord and king
of all, is the author of our being, and in him all live: this is
implied in the double form, Dios, Zenos, which being put together and
interpreted is di on ze panta. There may, at first sight, appear to be
some irreverence in calling him the son of Cronos, who is a proverb for
stupidity; but the meaning is that Zeus himself is the son of a mighty
intellect; Kronos, quasi koros, not in the sense of a youth, but quasi
to katharon kai akeraton tou nou--the pure and garnished mind, which in
turn is begotten of Uranus, who is so called apo tou oran ta ano, from
looking upwards; which, as philosophers say, is the way to have a pure
mind. The earlier portion of Hesiod's genealogy has escaped my memory,
or I would try more conclusions of the same sort. 'You talk like an
oracle.' I caught the infection from Euthyphro, who gave me a long
lecture which began at dawn, and has not only entered into my ears, but
filled my soul, and my intention is to yield to the inspiration to-day;
and to-morrow I will be exorcised by some priest or sophist. 'Go on;
I am anxious to hear the rest.' Now that we have a general notion,
how shall we proceed? What names will afford the most crucial test of
natural fitness? Those of heroes and ordinary men are often deceptive,
because they are patronymics or expressions of a wish; let us try gods
and demi-gods. Gods are so called, apo tou thein, from the verb 'to
run;' because the sun, moon, and stars run about the heaven; and they
being the original gods of the Hellenes, as they still are of the
Barbarians, their name is given to all Gods. The demons are the golden
race of Hesiod, and by golden he means not literally golden, but good;
and they are called demons, quasi daemones, which in old Attic was used
for daimones--good men are well said to become daimones when they die,
because they are knowing. Eros (with an epsilon) is the same word as
eros (with an eta): 'the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they
were fair;' or perhaps they were a species of sophists or rhetoricians,
and so called apo tou erotan, or eirein, from their habit of spinning
questions; for eirein is equivalent to legein. I get all this from
Euthyphro; and now a new and ingenious idea comes into my mind, and,
if I am not careful, I shall be wiser than I ought to be by to-morrow's
dawn. My idea is, that we may put in and pull out letters at pleasure
and alter the accents (as, for example, Dii philos may be turned into
Diphilos), and we may make words into sentences and sentences into
words. The name anthrotos is a case in point, for a letter has been
omitted and the accent changed; the original meaning being o anathron a
opopen--he who looks up at what he sees. Psuche may be thought to be the
reviving, or refreshing, or animating principle--e anapsuchousa to
soma; but I am afraid that Euthyphro and his disciples will scorn this
derivation, and I must find another: shall we identify the soul with the
'ordering mind' of Anaxagoras, and say that psuche, quasi phuseche = e
phusin echei or ochei?--this might easily be refined into psyche. 'That
is a more artistic etymology.'
