All names, whether primary or secondary, are intended to show the nature
of things; and the secondary, as I conceive, derive their significance
from the primary. But then, how do the primary names indicate anything?
And let me ask another question,--If we had no faculty of speech, how
should we communicate with one another? Should we not use signs,
like the deaf and dumb? The elevation of our hands would mean
lightness--heaviness would be expressed by letting them drop. The
running of any animal would be described by a similar movement of our
own frames. The body can only express anything by imitation; and the
tongue or mouth can imitate as well as the rest of the body. But this
imitation of the tongue or voice is not yet a name, because people may
imitate sheep or goats without naming them. What, then, is a name? In
the first place, a name is not a musical, or, secondly, a pictorial
imitation, but an imitation of that kind which expresses the nature of a
thing; and is the invention not of a musician, or of a painter, but of a
namer.
And now, I think that we may consider the names about which you were
asking. The way to analyze them will be by going back to the letters,
or primary elements of which they are composed. First, we separate the
alphabet into classes of letters, distinguishing the consonants, mutes,
vowels, and semivowels; and when we have learnt them singly, we shall
learn to know them in their various combinations of two or more letters;
just as the painter knows how to use either a single colour, or a
combination of colours. And like the painter, we may apply letters to
the expression of objects, and form them into syllables; and these
again into words, until the picture or figure--that is, language--is
completed. Not that I am literally speaking of ourselves, but I mean
to say that this was the way in which the ancients framed language. And
this leads me to consider whether the primary as well as the secondary
elements are rightly given. I may remark, as I was saying about the
Gods, that we can only attain to conjecture of them. But still we insist
that ours is the true and only method of discovery; otherwise we must
have recourse, like the tragic poets, to a Deus ex machina, and say
that God gave the first names, and therefore they are right; or that the
barbarians are older than we are, and that we learnt of them; or that
antiquity has cast a veil over the truth. Yet all these are not reasons;
they are only ingenious excuses for having no reasons.
I will freely impart to you my own notions, though they are somewhat
crude:--the letter rho appears to me to be the general instrument which
the legislator has employed to express all motion or kinesis. (I ought
to explain that kinesis is just iesis (going), for the letter eta was
unknown to the ancients; and the root, kiein, is a foreign form of
ienai: of kinesis or eisis, the opposite is stasis). This use of rho is
evident in the words tremble, break, crush, crumble, and the like;
the imposer of names perceived that the tongue is most agitated in the
pronunciation of this letter, just as he used iota to express the subtle
power which penetrates through all things. The letters phi, psi, sigma,
zeta, which require a great deal of wind, are employed in the imitation
of such notions as shivering, seething, shaking, and in general of what
is windy. The letters delta and tau convey the idea of binding and rest
in a place: the lambda denotes smoothness, as in the words slip, sleek,
sleep, and the like. But when the slipping tongue is detained by the
heavier sound of gamma, then arises the notion of a glutinous clammy
nature: nu is sounded from within, and has a notion of inwardness: alpha
is the expression of size; eta of length; omicron of roundness, and
therefore there is plenty of omicron in the word goggulon. That is my
view, Hermogenes, of the correctness of names; and I should like to hear
what Cratylus would say. 'But, Socrates, as I was telling you, Cratylus
mystifies me; I should like to ask him, in your presence, what he means
by the fitness of names?' To this appeal, Cratylus replies 'that he
cannot explain so important a subject all in a moment.' 'No, but you may
"add little to little," as Hesiod says.' Socrates here interposes
his own request, that Cratylus will give some account of his theory.
Hermogenes and himself are mere sciolists, but Cratylus has reflected
on these matters, and has had teachers. Cratylus replies in the words of
Achilles: '"Illustrious Ajax, you have spoken in all things much to my
mind," whether Euthyphro, or some Muse inhabiting your own breast,
was the inspirer.' Socrates replies, that he is afraid of being
self-deceived, and therefore he must 'look fore and aft,' as Homer
remarks. Does not Cratylus agree with him that names teach us the nature
of things? 'Yes.' And naming is an art, and the artists are legislators,
and like artists in general, some of them are better and some of them
are worse than others, and give better or worse laws, and make better or
worse names. Cratylus cannot admit that one name is better than another;
they are either true names, or they are not names at all; and when he is
asked about the name of Hermogenes, who is acknowledged to have no
luck in him, he affirms this to be the name of somebody else. Socrates
supposes him to mean that falsehood is impossible, to which his own
answer would be, that there has never been a lack of liars. Cratylus
presses him with the old sophistical argument, that falsehood is saying
that which is not, and therefore saying nothing;--you cannot utter the
word which is not. Socrates complains that this argument is too subtle
for an old man to understand: Suppose a person addressing Cratylus were
to say, Hail, Athenian Stranger, Hermogenes! would these words be true
or false? 'I should say that they would be mere unmeaning sounds, like
the hammering of a brass pot.' But you would acknowledge that names,
as well as pictures, are imitations, and also that pictures may give a
right or wrong representation of a man or woman:--why may not names
then equally give a representation true and right or false and wrong?
Cratylus admits that pictures may give a true or false representation,
but denies that names can. Socrates argues, that he may go up to a man
and say 'this is year picture,' and again, he may go and say to him
'this is your name'--in the one case appealing to his sense of sight,
and in the other to his sense of hearing;--may he not? 'Yes.' Then you
will admit that there is a right or a wrong assignment of names, and if
of names, then of verbs and nouns; and if of verbs and nouns, then
of the sentences which are made up of them; and comparing nouns to
pictures, you may give them all the appropriate sounds, or only some of
them. And as he who gives all the colours makes a good picture, and
he who gives only some of them, a bad or imperfect one, but still a
picture; so he who gives all the sounds makes a good name, and he who
gives only some of them, a bad or imperfect one, but a name still. The
artist of names, that is, the legislator, may be a good or he may be a
bad artist. 'Yes, Socrates, but the cases are not parallel; for if you
subtract or misplace a letter, the name ceases to be a name.' Socrates
admits that the number 10, if an unit is subtracted, would cease to
be 10, but denies that names are of this purely quantitative nature.
Suppose that there are two objects--Cratylus and the image of Cratylus;
and let us imagine that some God makes them perfectly alike, both in
their outward form and in their inner nature and qualities: then
there will be two Cratyluses, and not merely Cratylus and the image of
Cratylus. But an image in fact always falls short in some degree of the
original, and if images are not exact counterparts, why should names
be? if they were, they would be the doubles of their originals, and
indistinguishable from them; and how ridiculous would this be! Cratylus
admits the truth of Socrates' remark. But then Socrates rejoins, he
should have the courage to acknowledge that letters may be wrongly
inserted in a noun, or a noun in a sentence; and yet the noun or the
sentence may retain a meaning. Better to admit this, that we may not be
punished like the traveller in Egina who goes about at night, and that
Truth herself may not say to us, 'Too late.' And, errors excepted, we
may still affirm that a name to be correct must have proper letters,
which bear a resemblance to the thing signified. I must remind you of
what Hermogenes and I were saying about the letter rho accent, which
was held to be expressive of motion and hardness, as lambda is of
smoothness;--and this you will admit to be their natural meaning. But
then, why do the Eritreans call that skleroter which we call sklerotes?
We can understand one another, although the letter rho accent is not
equivalent to the letter s: why is this? You reply, because the two
letters are sufficiently alike for the purpose of expressing motion.
Well, then, there is the letter lambda; what business has this in a word
meaning hardness? 'Why, Socrates, I retort upon you, that we put in and
pull out letters at pleasure.' And the explanation of this is custom
or agreement: we have made a convention that the rho shall mean s and a
convention may indicate by the unlike as well as by the like. How could
there be names for all the numbers unless you allow that convention
is used? Imitation is a poor thing, and has to be supplemented by
convention, which is another poor thing; although I agree with you in
thinking that the most perfect form of language is found only where
there is a perfect correspondence of sound and meaning. But let me ask
you what is the use and force of names? 'The use of names, Socrates, is
to inform, and he who knows names knows things.' Do you mean that the
discovery of names is the same as the discovery of things? 'Yes.' But
do you not see that there is a degree of deception about names? He who
first gave names, gave them according to his conception, and that
may have been erroneous. 'But then, why, Socrates, is language so
consistent? all words have the same laws.' Mere consistency is no test
of truth. In geometrical problems, for example, there may be a flaw
at the beginning, and yet the conclusion may follow consistently. And,
therefore, a wise man will take especial care of first principles. But
are words really consistent; are there not as many terms of praise
which signify rest as which signify motion? There is episteme, which
is connected with stasis, as mneme is with meno. Bebaion, again, is the
expression of station and position; istoria is clearly descriptive of
the stopping istanai of the stream; piston indicates the cessation of
motion; and there are many words having a bad sense, which are connected
with ideas of motion, such as sumphora, amartia, etc.: amathia, again,
might be explained, as e ama theo iontos poreia, and akolasia as e
akolouthia tois pragmasin. Thus the bad names are framed on the same
principle as the good, and other examples might be given, which would
favour a theory of rest rather than of motion. 'Yes; but the greater
number of words express motion.' Are we to count them, Cratylus; and is
correctness of names to be determined by the voice of a majority?
