'Will you go on to the elements--sun, moon, stars, earth, aether, air,
fire, water, seasons, years?' Very good: and which shall I take first?
Let us begin with elios, or the sun. The Doric form elios helps us to
see that he is so called because at his rising he gathers (alizei) men
together, or because he rolls about (eilei) the earth, or because he
variegates (aiolei = poikillei) the earth. Selene is an anticipation
of Anaxagoras, being a contraction of selaenoneoaeia, the light (selas)
which is ever old and new, and which, as Anaxagoras says, is borrowed
from the sun; the name was harmonized into selanaia, a form which is
still in use. 'That is a true dithyrambic name.' Meis is so called apo
tou meiousthai, from suffering diminution, and astron is from astrape
(lightning), which is an improvement of anastrope, that which turns the
eyes inside out. 'How do you explain pur n udor?' I suspect that pur,
which, like udor n kuon, is found in Phrygian, is a foreign word; for
the Hellenes have borrowed much from the barbarians, and I always resort
to this theory of a foreign origin when I am at a loss. Aer may be
explained, oti airei ta apo tes ges; or, oti aei rei; or, oti pneuma ex
autou ginetai (compare the poetic word aetai). So aither quasi aeitheer
oti aei thei peri ton aera: ge, gaia quasi genneteira (compare the
Homeric form gegaasi); ora (with an omega), or, according to the old
Attic form ora (with an omicron), is derived apo tou orizein, because
it divides the year; eniautos and etos are the same thought--o en eauto
etazon, cut into two parts, en eauto and etazon, like di on ze into Dios
and Zenos.
'You make surprising progress.' True; I am run away with, and am not
even yet at my utmost speed. 'I should like very much to hear your
account of the virtues. What principle of correctness is there in
those charming words, wisdom, understanding, justice, and the rest?' To
explain all that will be a serious business; still, as I have put on
the lion's skin, appearances must be maintained. My opinion is, that
primitive men were like some modern philosophers, who, by always going
round in their search after the nature of things, become dizzy; and this
phenomenon, which was really in themselves, they imagined to take place
in the external world. You have no doubt remarked, that the doctrine of
the universal flux, or generation of things, is indicated in names. 'No,
I never did.' Phronesis is only phoras kai rou noesis, or perhaps phoras
onesis, and in any case is connected with pheresthai; gnome is gones
skepsis kai nomesis; noesis is neou or gignomenon esis; the word neos
implies that creation is always going on--the original form was
neoesis; sophrosune is soteria phroneseos; episteme is e epomene tois
pragmasin--the faculty which keeps close, neither anticipating nor
lagging behind; sunesis is equivalent to sunienai, sumporeuesthai ten
psuche, and is a kind of conclusion--sullogismos tis, akin therefore in
idea to episteme; sophia is very difficult, and has a foreign look--the
meaning is, touching the motion or stream of things, and may be
illustrated by the poetical esuthe and the Lacedaemonian proper name
Sous, or Rush; agathon is ro agaston en te tachuteti,--for all things
are in motion, and some are swifter than others: dikaiosune is clearly
e tou dikaiou sunesis. The word dikaion is more troublesome, and appears
to mean the subtle penetrating power which, as the lovers of motion say,
preserves all things, and is the cause of all things, quasi diaion going
through--the letter kappa being inserted for the sake of euphony. This
is a great mystery which has been confided to me; but when I ask for an
explanation I am thought obtrusive, and another derivation is proposed
to me. Justice is said to be o kaion, or the sun; and when I joyfully
repeat this beautiful notion, I am answered, 'What, is there no justice
when the sun is down?' And when I entreat my questioner to tell me his
own opinion, he replies, that justice is fire in the abstract, or heat
in the abstract; which is not very intelligible. Others laugh at such
notions, and say with Anaxagoras, that justice is the ordering mind. 'I
think that some one must have told you this.' And not the rest? Let me
proceed then, in the hope of proving to you my originality. Andreia is
quasi anpeia quasi e ano roe, the stream which flows upwards, and
is opposed to injustice, which clearly hinders the principle of
penetration; arren and aner have a similar derivation; gune is the same
as gone; thelu is derived apo tes theles, because the teat makes things
flourish (tethelenai), and the word thallein itself implies increase
of youth, which is swift and sudden ever (thein and allesthai). I am
getting over the ground fast: but much has still to be explained. There
is techne, for instance. This, by an aphaeresis of tau and an epenthesis
of omicron in two places, may be identified with echonoe, and signifies
'that which has mind.'
