CLEINIAS: What do you mean?
ATHENIAN STRANGER: I mean that he might watch them from the point of
view of time, and observe the changes which take place in them during
infinite ages.
CLEINIAS: How so?
ATHENIAN STRANGER: Why, do you think that you can reckon the time which
has elapsed since cities first existed and men were citizens of them?
CLEINIAS: Hardly.
ATHENIAN STRANGER: But you are quite sure that it must be vast and
incalculable?
CLEINIAS: No doubt.
ATHENIAN STRANGER: And have there not been thousands and thousands of
cities which have come into being and perished during this period? And
has not every place had endless forms of government, and been sometimes
rising, and at other times falling, and again improving or waning?'
Aristot. Metaph.:--
'And if a person should conceive the tales of mythology to mean only
that men thought the gods to be the first essences of things, he would
deem the reflection to have been inspired and would consider that,
whereas probably every art and part of wisdom had been DISCOVERED AND
LOST MANY TIMES OVER, such notions were but a remnant of the past which
has survived to our day.')
It can hardly be supposed that any traces of an original language
still survive, any more than of the first huts or buildings which were
constructed by man. Nor are we at all certain of the relation, if any,
in which the greater families of languages stand to each other. The
influence of individuals must always have been a disturbing element.
Like great writers in later times, there may have been many a barbaric
genius who taught the men of his tribe to sing or speak, showing them by
example how to continue or divide their words, charming their souls
with rhythm and accent and intonation, finding in familiar objects the
expression of their confused fancies--to whom the whole of language
might in truth be said to be a figure of speech. One person may have
introduced a new custom into the formation or pronunciation of a word;
he may have been imitated by others, and the custom, or form, or accent,
or quantity, or rhyme which he introduced in a single word may have
become the type on which many other words or inflexions of words were
framed, and may have quickly ran through a whole language. For like the
other gifts which nature has bestowed upon man, that of speech has been
conveyed to him through the medium, not of the many, but of the few, who
were his 'law-givers'--'the legislator with the dialectician standing
on his right hand,' in Plato's striking image, who formed the manners
of men and gave them customs, whose voice and look and behaviour, whose
gesticulations and other peculiarities were instinctively imitated by
them,--the 'king of men' who was their priest, almost their God...But
these are conjectures only: so little do we know of the origin of
language that the real scholar is indisposed to touch the subject at
all.
