fire:air::air:water, and air:water::water:earth,
and so put together a visible and palpable heaven, having harmony and
friendship in the union of the four elements; and being at unity with
itself it was indissoluble except by the hand of the framer. Each of the
elements was taken into the universe whole and entire; for he considered
that the animal should be perfect and one, leaving no remnants out of
which another animal could be created, and should also be free from old
age and disease, which are produced by the action of external forces.
And as he was to contain all things, he was made in the all-containing
form of a sphere, round as from a lathe and every way equidistant from
the centre, as was natural and suitable to him. He was finished and
smooth, having neither eyes nor ears, for there was nothing without
him which he could see or hear; and he had no need to carry food to
his mouth, nor was there air for him to breathe; and he did not require
hands, for there was nothing of which he could take hold, nor feet, with
which to walk. All that he did was done rationally in and by himself,
and he moved in a circle turning within himself, which is the most
intellectual of motions; but the other six motions were wanting to him;
wherefore the universe had no feet or legs.
And so the thought of God made a God in the image of a perfect body,
having intercourse with himself and needing no other, but in every part
harmonious and self-contained and truly blessed. The soul was first made
by him--the elder to rule the younger; not in the order in which our
wayward fancy has led us to describe them, but the soul first and
afterwards the body. God took of the unchangeable and indivisible and
also of the divisible and corporeal, and out of the two he made a third
nature, essence, which was in a mean between them, and partook of the
same and the other, the intractable nature of the other being compressed
into the same. Having made a compound of all the three, he proceeded
to divide the entire mass into portions related to one another in the
ratios of 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 8, 27, and proceeded to fill up the double and
triple intervals thus--
  - over 1, 4/3, 3/2, - over 2, 8/3, 3, - over 4, 16/3, 6,  - over 8:
  - over 1, 3/2, 2,   - over 3, 9/2, 6, - over 9, 27/2, 18, - over 27;
in which double series of numbers are two kinds of means; the one
exceeds and is exceeded by equal parts of the extremes, e.g. 1, 4/3, 2;
the other kind of mean is one which is equidistant from the extremes--2,
4, 6. In this manner there were formed intervals of thirds, 3:2, of
fourths, 4:3, and of ninths, 9:8. And next he filled up the intervals
of a fourth with ninths, leaving a remnant which is in the ratio of
256:243. The entire compound was divided by him lengthways into two
parts, which he united at the centre like the letter X, and bent into an
inner and outer circle or sphere, cutting one another again at a point
over against the point at which they cross. The outer circle or sphere
was named the sphere of the same--the inner, the sphere of the other
or diverse; and the one revolved horizontally to the right, the other
diagonally to the left. To the sphere of the same which was undivided
he gave dominion, but the sphere of the other or diverse was distributed
into seven unequal orbits, having intervals in ratios of twos and
threes, three of either sort, and he bade the orbits move in opposite
directions to one another--three of them, the Sun, Mercury, Venus,
with equal swiftness, and the remaining four--the Moon, Saturn, Mars,
Jupiter, with unequal swiftness to the three and to one another, but all
in due proportion.
