Again the minstrel took his harp and sang, and again Odysseus wept.
Alkinoos noticed that the song of Demodokos moved Odysseus to tears,
and thought it might be well to stay the music awhile and begin the
games, that the stranger might witness the athletic skill of the
Phaeacians. All the princes instantly arose and walked down to the
market-place, the king leading and the people following.
When the chiefs had taken their seats a great number of young men
hastened forward to begin the games. Some of them darted over the
plain in a foot-race, raising a cloud of dust. Others strove with
all their might in wrestling-matches, while some threw the quoit or
played at boxing and leaping. After they had enjoyed looking at the
games, Laodamas, a son of Alkinoos, said to his friends: "Let us ask
the stranger to take part in the games. His strong arms and legs and
powerful neck show that he is no weakling. Nor has he lost his youthful
vigor after all his hardships, although nothing tires a man so much
as being tossed about on the sea."
Then the friends of Laodamas advised him to challenge Odysseus to
take part in the games; and this seemed right to the prince, so he
said to him: "Father, I think thou must be skilful in these games.
Let us see thee try them. We will not delay thee long. Thy ship is
ready for thee on the sea, and the crew is there, waiting. But there
is no greater glory or pleasure for a man than to excel in swiftness
of foot and strength of muscle."
Odysseus answered him: "Why dost thou urge me, O Laodamas? How can
I take part in the games or find any pleasure in them after all that
I have suffered? Here I sit, a suppliant, praying to be sent back
to my wife and home." Then Euryalos scoffed at him, saying: "Thou
art right, stranger, for thy countenance shows thou art anything but
an athlete.
"Methinks thou art the owner of some merchant-vessel. Thou art a
trader, whose head is full of bargains. Such men can take heed of
nothing except how to increase wealth."
These mocking words vexed Odysseus, and he retorted: "My friend, thou
dost not speak like a man of good mind. The gods do not bestow their
gifts equally on all men. To thee they have given great beauty, but
they have denied thee wit. Thy words carry no weight. Learn, then,
that I am not unskilled in the games. When I was young and strong
I was one of the best athletes. But even now, after all my shipwrecks
and hardships, I will strive with thee, for thy words are offensive
and challenge me to the proof."
Having said this, Odysseus seized a much larger and heavier quoit
than the Phaeacian prince could use, and swinging it in his powerful
hand he hurled it forth. The stone whirred through the air and fell
to the ground away beyond the marks of the other disks. Then Athena
took the form of a Phaeacian and set a mark where the quoit fell,
and exclaimed as she did so: "Stranger, even a blind man could easily
find thy mark, for it is far beyond the others. Sit down in peace
and do not fear that anybody else can throw so far." Odysseus was
pleased when he heard these friendly words. With a light heart he
said to the Phaeacian youths: "Reach my mark, if you can, young men,
and I will send a stone farther yet. But if you cannot reach it, and
prefer a match at boxing or wrestling or foot-race, come forth. I
am ready to try any of the games with you. I can throw a spear farther
than any of you can shoot an arrow. I fear nothing unless it may be
the foot-race, for I have lost my strength with want of food and being
tossed by the waves."
