"I once saw a young palm-tree growing up beside Apollo's altar in
the island of Delos. It was the most beautiful tree the earth ever
produced, and I gazed upon it with wonder and reverence. So am I amazed
at thy beauty, and I fear to approach thee and throw myself as a
suppliant at thy feet, although I am in sore distress, for great
misfortunes have befallen me.
"It was only last night that I escaped from the sea. On my way from
Calypso's isle I was driven about for twenty days by the angry waves
in a violent storm. Now some god has cast me on this shore to make
me undergo new trials, for I do not believe my sufferings have come
to an end. Have pity on me, O queen, because thou art the first human
being I have met after so many misfortunes.
"I do not know one person in this country. Show me thy city, I pray,
and give me an old robe to wear, no matter how coarse and poor, and
may the gods bestow all blessings upon thee."
Nausicaa looked at Odysseus in pity and answered: "Stranger, thou
dost not seem to me to be a man of mean birth or breeding, and thou
art surely in distress. But it is Zeus who distributes gifts to mortals,
both the good and the evil things of life, and thou must submit to
his will with patience.
"Since thou hast come into our land devoid of all things, even garments,
and art helpless, I will give thee clothing and tell thee the way
to the city. And I will tell thee about the people living in it, for
I am the daughter of the king, Alkinoos, who reigns over this island."
When Nausicaa had spoken thus to Odysseus, she turned to her maids
and commanded them not to flee from the wanderer, but to bring him
food and drink, since Zeus sent the poor and the stranger to be cared
for.
And she told them to lead him to some lonely spot by the side of the
river, where he might bathe at his ease. So the maids came back and
led the hero to a sheltered place and laid a cloak and tunic on the
sand, and the bottle of oil which the queen had given Nausicaa, that
Odysseus might anoint and clothe himself after his bath; then they
ran back to the princess.
Odysseus bathed in the fresh water of the river and washed the salt
sea-foam from his hair, and when the bath was over he put on the robes
that Nausicaa had sent. Athena shed a halo of beauty over him and
caused him to look taller and stronger than before.
As he walked along the beach to rejoin the maidens, they admired his
noble and kingly bearing, and Nausicaa said to her maids: "Surely
this man does not come among our godlike brothers against the will
of the gods. I thought him rough and homely, but now he seems like
one of the immortals. I would that I might call a man like him my
husband. Make haste to give him food and wine, for he has fasted a
long time."
