As he spoke a huge wave struck the raft with such terrible force that
it whirled it around and overturned it. The helm was wrung from his
hand and he fell into the angry breakers. The mast was snapped in
two and the ropes and sails flew off into the sea.
Odysseus was under water a long time, striving in vain to come to
the surface. Finally he rose, spitting the bitter brine out of his
mouth. Although he was in such a desperate plight, his mind was on
the raft. Battling bravely with the waves he reached it, and springing
on board sat down in the middle of it. Thus he escaped death.
The angry waves tossed him hither and thither as the wind scatters
the leaves over a field. Then Ino, the daughter of Cadmus, saw him
and took pity on him. She took the form of a bird, and, perching on
his raft, she said to him: "O, luckless man! why is Poseidon so angry
with thee? Fear nothing, however; he cannot take thy life. Obey me
and thou shalt not suffer much longer. Lay aside thy clothes, leave
the raft to the mercy of the winds and waves, and swim to the land.
Take my veil and wind it about thy breast, and thou shalt not have
anything to fear. As soon as thou hast reached the land, take it off
and throw it back into the sea. Then hurry away inland."
Odysseus hesitated to follow Ino's advice, fearing some treachery.
But Poseidon sent a huge wave which struck him and scattered the raft
as if it were dry chaff. Then Odysseus at once got astride of the
swimming timber. He bound the veil around his breast and bravely
plunged into the boiling waters.
Poseidon saw him, and shaking his head he said: "I verily believe
thou wilt come out alive from the sea. But the sea has had thee long
enough, so that thou wilt know its power hereafter and fear it." Saying
this he lashed up his horses and drove off.
CHAPTER VII
ODYSSEUS IS SAVED ON THE ISLAND OF SCHERIA
Athena, the daughter of Zeus, seeing Odysseus struggling through the
waves, pitied him, and bade the winds become quiet. Two days and two
nights Odysseus floated about, but on the third the wind calmed down
and the sea became smooth.
In a short time he found himself near land once more. But the shore
was wild and full of sharp rocks and high cliffs. He could see no
place on which to set foot, and he grew downhearted. His knees gave
way, and, groaning deeply, he cried out: "O, luckless one! In vain
have I braved the dangers of the sea to escape death. Now all hope
has abandoned me, since there is no way for me to get out of the water.
I fear that when I try to approach the land the waves will throw me
against the cliffs, and should I try to find a safe landing-place
by swimming, the surf may carry me back into the wild sea, where some
sea-monster will swallow me up. Whatever I may do, I see no help for
me."
