More than that, having heard the news from Crete that his presence
there was desirable on account of some urgent business, he did not
hesitate to set sail for that island, in the expectation of finding
Paris and his companions still enjoying the hospitality of his palace
after a short absence.
This was the chance which wily Aphrodite had contrived for Paris.
He took the hint and carried Helen away to his ship, together with
as much treasure as they could lay hands on, and then they sailed
for Troy. Little did he heed, in his mad desire to call the most
beautiful woman in the world his wife, that she was already the wife
of a hero who had received him as an honored guest in his house, and
that he was about to destroy the peace and honor of his host.
As soon as Menelaos heard of the flight of his wife, he hastened back
to Sparta, where he found his palace deserted and his treasure-house
robbed.
Then his heart was filled with great wrath. He set out at once to
see his brother, Agamemnon, to consult with him about what was to
be done. Agamemnon was ruler over Mycenae, and highly respected in
all Hellas on account of his power and riches.
After the two brothers had talked over this grave affair, they
announced to all the leaders in Hellas the great and detestable crime,
and asked them for their assistance. All the king's chiefs of Hellas
lent a willing ear to this demand, for in this breach of hospitality,
committed against one of them, each felt himself personally aggrieved
and bound to help in the punishment of what, in those times, was
considered the most unpardonable of all crimes. Only one of the kings
held back for awhile and needed much persuasion to join the league.
This was Odysseus of Ithaca, who could well consider himself at the
time the happiest of mortals, for he had lately married Penelope,
one of the fairest and most virtuous maidens of Greece. He had an
infant son of great beauty and promise, and he owned much land and
countless herds of cattle, sheep, and swine. Added to that, all the
petty nobles of the island acknowledged him as their chief.
But a soothsayer, or seer, had greatly disturbed him by informing
him that if he went to a great war he would be kept away from his
home for the space of twenty years, and even then return to it in
the guise of a beggar, after having suffered wrecks, captivity,
endless wanderings, and loss of comrades.
No one could doubt that Odysseus was brave, but no one could blame
him for wishing to be excused from taking part in the war against
Troy. Menelaos and his brother, however, would accept no excuse from
him, as he was the wisest and craftiest of all the leaders, and when
Odysseus finally consented to join them he set about arming and
directing the young Greek warriors with all his heart and soul.
