BOOK II.
ARGUMENT.
THE COUNCIL OF ITHACA.
Telemachus in the assembly of the lords of Ithaca complains of the
injustice done him by the suitors, and insists upon their
departure from his palace; appealing to the princes, and exciting
the people to declare against them. The suitors endeavour to
justify their stay, at least till he shall send the queen to the
court of Icarius her father; which he refuses. There appears a
prodigy of two eagles in the sky, which an augur expounds to the
ruin of the suitors. Telemachus the demands a vessel to carry him
to Pylos and Sparta, there to inquire of his father's fortunes.
Pallas, in the shape of Mentor (an ancient friend of Ulysses),
helps him to a ship, assists him in preparing necessaries for the
voyage, and embarks with him that night; which concludes the
second day from the opening of the poem. The scene continues in
the palace of Ulysses, in Ithaca.
Now reddening from the dawn, the morning ray
Glow'd in the front of heaven, and gave the day
The youthful hero, with returning light,
Rose anxious from the inquietudes of night.
A royal robe he wore with graceful pride,
A two-edged falchion threaten'd by his side,
Embroider'd sandals glitter'd as he trod,
And forth he moved, majestic as a god.
Then by his heralds, restless of delay,
To council calls the peers: the peers obey.
Soon as in solemn form the assembly sate,
From his high dome himself descends in state.
Bright in his hand a ponderous javelin shined;
Two dogs, a faithful guard, attend behind;
Pallas with grace divine his form improves,
And gazing crowds admire him as he moves,
His father's throne he fill'd; while distant stood
The hoary peers, and aged wisdom bow'd.
'Twas silence all.  At last AEgyptius spoke;
AEgyptius, by his age and sorrow broke;
A length of days his soul with prudence crown'd,
A length of days had bent him to the ground.
His eldest hope in arms to Ilion came,
By great Ulysses taught the path to fame;
But (hapless youth) the hideous Cyclops tore
His quivering limbs, and quaff'd his spouting gore.
Three sons remain'd; to climb with haughty fires
The royal bed, Eurynomus aspires;
The rest with duteous love his griefs assuage,
And ease the sire of half the cares of age.
Yet still his Antiphus he loves, he mourns,
And, as he stood, he spoke and wept by turns,
"Since great Ulysses sought the Phrygian plains,
Within these walls inglorious silence reigns.
Say then, ye peers! by whose commands we meet?
Why here once more in solemn council sit?
Ye young, ye old, the weighty cause disclose:
Arrives some message of invading foes?
Or say, does high necessity of state
Inspire some patriot, and demand debate?
The present synod speaks its author wise;
Assist him, Jove, thou regent of the skies!"
He spoke. Telemachus with transport glows,
Embraced the omen, and majestic rose
(His royal hand the imperial sceptre sway'd);
Then thus, addressing to AEgyptius, said:
