Thus he spoke. And Patroclus obeyed his dear companion, and led forth
fair-cheeked Briseis from the tent, and gave her to them to conduct; and
they returned along by the ships of the Greeks. But the woman went with
them reluctantly, whilst Achilles, weeping,[45] immediately sat down,
removed apart from his companions, upon the shore of the hoary sea,
gazing on the darkling main; and much he be sought his dear mother,
stretching forth his hands:
   [Footnote 41: Hesych. [Greek: rigion phoberoteron chalepoteron].]
   [Footnote 42: "Misit eos, minaci jusso dato."--Heyne.]
   [Footnote 43: So called from their inviolability,--[Greek: asylon
   gar kai theion to genos to kerykon].--Schol. [Greek: Kai ezen
   antois pantachose adeos ienai].--Pollux, viii. They were properly
   sacred to Mercury (id. iv. 9. Cf. Feith, Antiq. Homer, iv. 1),
   but are called the messengers of Jove, as being under his special
   protection, with a reference to the supporting of regal
   authority.]
   [Footnote 44: Observe the aposiopesis.]
   [Footnote 45: Not for the loss of Briseis, but on account of the
   affront.]
"O mother, since thou hast borne me, to be but short-lived, at least
then ought high-thundering Olympian Jove to have vouchsafed honour to
me; but now he has not honoured me ever so little; for the son of
Atreus, wide-ruling Agamemnon, has dishonoured me; for he, taking away
my prize, possesses it, himself having wrested it [from me]."
Thus he spoke, weeping. But to him his venerable mother hearkened,
sitting in the depths of the ocean beside her aged sire. And immediately
she rose up from the hoary deep, like a mist. And then she sat before
him weeping, and soothed him with her hand, and addressed him, and spoke
aloud:
"Son, why weepest thou--on account of what has grief come upon thy mind?
Declare it, nor hide it in thy soul, that we both may know it."
But her, sighing deeply, swift-footed Achilles addressed: "Thou knowest;
why should I tell all these things to thee, already knowing [them]? We
went against Thebe,[46] the sacred city of Eetion; and this we
plundered, and brought hither all [the spoil]. And these things indeed
the sons of the Greeks fairly divided among themselves, and selected for
Agamemnon the fair-cheeked daughter of Chryses. But Chryses, priest of
the far-darting Apollo, came afterwards to the fleet ships of the
brazen-mailed Greeks, about to ransom his daughter, and bringing
invaluable ransoms, having in his hand the fillets of far-darting
Apollo, on his golden sceptre. And he supplicated all the Greeks, but
chiefly the two sons of Atreus, the leaders of the people. Upon this all
the other Greeks shouted assent, that the priest should be reverenced,
and the splendid ransoms accepted: yet it was not pleasing to Agamemnon,
son of Atreus, in his mind; but he dismissed him evilly, and added a
harsh mandate. The old man therefore went back enraged; but Apollo
hearkened to him praying, for he was very dear to him. And he sent a
destructive arrow against the Greeks; and the forces were now dying one
upon another, and the shafts of the god went on all sides through the
wide army of the Greeks. But to us the skilful seer unfolded the divine
will of the Far-darter. Straightway I first exhorted that we should
appease the god; but then rage seized upon the son of Atreus, and
instantly rising, he uttered a threatening speech, which is now
accomplished; for the rolling-eyed Greeks attend her to Chrysa with a
swift bark, and bring presents to the king; but the heralds have just
now gone from my tent, conducting the virgin daughter of Briseis, whom
the sons of the Greeks gave to me. But do thou, if thou art able, aid
thy son. Going to Olympus, supplicate Jove, if ever thou didst delight
the heart of Jove as to anything, by word or deed; for I frequently
heard thee boasting in the palaces of my sire, when thou saidest that
thou alone, amongst the immortals, didst avert unworthy destruction from
the cloud-collecting son of Saturn, when the other Olympian inhabitants,
Juno, and Neptune, and Pallas Minerva, wished to bind him. But thou, O
goddess, having approached, freed him from his chains, having quickly
summoned to lofty Olympus, the hundred-handed, whom the gods call
Briareus, and all men AEgeon, because he was superior to his father in
strength,[47] who then sat by the son of Saturn, exulting in renown. Him
then the blessed gods dreaded, nor did they bind [Jove]. Of these things
now reminding him, sit beside him, and embrace his knees, if in anywise
he may consent to aid the Trojans, and hem in[48] at their ships, and
along the sea, the Greeks [while they get] slaughtered, that all may
enjoy their king, and that the son of Atreus, wide-ruling Agamemnon, may
know his baleful folly,[49] when he in no wise honoured the bravest of
the Greeks."
