He then sat down, and Nestor the prince of Pylos with all sincerity and
goodwill addressed them thus: "My friends," said he, "princes and
councillors of the Argives, if any other man of the Achaeans had told
us of this dream we should have declared it false, and would have had
nothing to do with it. But he who has seen it is the foremost man among
us; we must therefore set about getting the people under arms."
With this he led the way from the assembly, and the other sceptred
kings rose with him in obedience to the word of Agamemnon; but the
people pressed forward to hear. They swarmed like bees that sally from
some hollow cave and flit in countless throng among the spring flowers,
bunched in knots and clusters; even so did the mighty multitude pour
from ships and tents to the assembly, and range themselves upon the
wide-watered shore, while among them ran Wildfire Rumour, messenger of
Jove, urging them ever to the fore. Thus they gathered in a pell-mell
of mad confusion, and the earth groaned under the tramp of men as the
people sought their places. Nine heralds went crying about among them
to stay their tumult and bid them listen to the kings, till at last
they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour. Then
King Agamemnon rose, holding his sceptre. This was the work of Vulcan,
who gave it to Jove the son of Saturn. Jove gave it to Mercury, slayer
of Argus, guide and guardian. King Mercury gave it to Pelops, the
mighty charioteer, and Pelops to Atreus, shepherd of his people.
Atreus, when he died, left it to Thyestes, rich in flocks, and Thyestes
in his turn left it to be borne by Agamemnon, that he might be lord of
all Argos and of the isles. Leaning, then, on his sceptre, he addressed
the Argives.
"My friends," he said, "heroes, servants of Mars, the hand of heaven
has been laid heavily upon me. Cruel Jove gave me his solemn promise
that I should sack the city of Priam before returning, but he has
played me false, and is now bidding me go ingloriously back to Argos
with the loss of much people. Such is the will of Jove, who has laid
many a proud city in the dust, as he will yet lay others, for his power
is above all. It will be a sorry tale hereafter that an Achaean host,
at once so great and valiant, battled in vain against men fewer in
number than themselves; but as yet the end is not in sight. Think that
the Achaeans and Trojans have sworn to a solemn covenant, and that they
have each been numbered--the Trojans by the roll of their householders,
and we by companies of ten; think further that each of our companies
desired to have a Trojan householder to pour out their wine; we are so
greatly more in number that full many a company would have to go
without its cup-bearer. But they have in the town allies from other
places, and it is these that hinder me from being able to sack the rich
city of Ilius. Nine of Jove's years are gone; the timbers of our ships
have rotted; their tackling is sound no longer. Our wives and little
ones at home look anxiously for our coming, but the work that we came
hither to do has not been done. Now, therefore, let us all do as I say:
let us sail back to our own land, for we shall not take Troy."
