   [Footnote 97: Not being compelled to restore her, like the
   daughter of Chryses.]
   [Footnote 98: Virg. AEn. ix. 617: "O vere Phrygiae, neque enim
   Phryges!"]
   [Footnote 99: This is Naegelsbach's spirited rendering of [Greek:
   oikade per].]
Thus spoke Thersites, reviling Agamemnon, the shepherd of the people.
But godlike Ulysses immediately stood beside him, and eyeing him with
scowling brow, reproached him with harsh language:
"Thersites, reckless babbler! noisy declaimer though thou be, refrain,
nor be forward singly to strive with princes; for I affirm that there is
not another mortal more base than thou, as many as came with the son of
Atreus to Ilium. Wherefore do not harangue, having kings in thy mouth,
nor cast reproaches against them, nor be on the watch for a return. Not
as yet indeed do we certainly know how these matters will turn out,
whether we sons of the Greeks shall return to our advantage or
disadvantage. Wherefore, now thou sittest reviling Agamemnon, son of
Atreus, the leader of the people, because the Grecian heroes give him
very many gifts, whilst thou, insulting, dost harangue. But I declare to
thee, which shall also be accomplished: if ever again I catch thee
raving, as now thou art, no longer may the head of Ulysses rest upon his
shoulders, and no longer may I be called the father of Telemachus,
unless I seizing thee divest thee of thy very garments, thy coat, thy
cloak, and those which cover thy loins; and send thyself weeping to the
swift ships, having beaten thee out of the assembly with severe blows."
Thus he spoke, and smote him with the sceptre upon the back and the
shoulders; but he writhed, and plenteous tears fell from him, and a
bloody weal arose under the sceptre upon his back. But he sat down and
trembled; and grieving, looking foolish, he wiped away the tears. They,
although chagrined, laughed heartily at him, and thus one would say,
looking towards the person next him:
"O strange! surely ten thousand good deeds has Ulysses already
performed, both originating good counsels, and arousing the war. But now
has he done this by far the best deed amongst the Greeks, in that he has
restrained this foul-mouthed reviler from his harangues. Surely his
petulant mind will not again urge him to chide the kings with scurrilous
language."
Thus spake the multitude; but Ulysses, the sacker of cities, arose,
holding the sceptre, and beside him azure-eyed Minerva, likened unto a
herald, ordered the people to be silent, that at the same time the sons
of the Greeks, both first and last, might hear his speech, and weigh his
counsel. He wisely counselling, addressed them, and said:
"O son of Atreus, the Greeks wish to render thee now, O king, the
meanest amongst articulately-speaking men; nor perform their promise to
thee,[100] which they held forth, coming hither from steed-nourishing
Argos, that thou shouldest return home, having destroyed well-fortified
Ilium. For, like tender boys, or widowed women, they bewail unto one
another to return home. And truly it is a hardship to return [so],
having been grieved. For he is impatient who is absent even for a single
month from his wife, remaining with his many-benched ship,[101] though
wintry storms and the boisterous sea may be hemming in;[102] but to us
it is [now] the ninth revolving year since we have been lingering here.
Wherefore I am not indignant that the Greeks are growing impatient by
their curved ships; but still it would be disgraceful both to remain
here so long, and to return ineffectually. Endure, my friends, and
remain yet awhile, that we may know whether Calchas prophesies truly or
not. For this we well know, and ye are all witnesses, whom the Fates of
death carried not off yesterday and the day before, when the ships of
the Greeks were collected at Aulis, bearing evils to Priam and the
Trojans, and we round about the fountain, at the sacred altars, offered
perfect hecatombs to the immortals, beneath a beauteous plane-tree,
whence flowed limpid water.[103] There a great prodigy appeared; a
serpent, spotted on the back, horrible, which the Olympian himself had
sent forth into the light, having glided out from beneath the altar,
proceeded forthwith to the plane-tree. And there were the young of a
sparrow, an infant offspring, on a topmost branch, cowering amongst the
foliage, eight in number; but the mother, which had brought forth the
young ones, was the ninth. Thereupon he devoured them, twittering
piteously, while the mother kept fluttering about, lamenting her dear
young; but then, having turned himself about, he seized her by the wing,
screaming around. But after he had devoured the young of the sparrow,
and herself, the god who had displayed him rendered him very portentous,
for the son of wily Saturn changed him into a stone; but we, standing
by, were astonished at what happened. Thus, therefore, the dreadful
portents of the gods approached the hecatombs. Calchas, then,
immediately addressed us, revealing from the gods: 'Why are ye become
silent, ye waving-crested Greeks? For us, indeed, provident Jove has
shown a great sign, late, of late accomplishment, the renown of which
shall never perish. As this [serpent] has devoured the young of the
sparrow, eight in number, and herself, the mother which brought out the
brood, was the ninth, so must we for as many years[104] wage war here,
but in the tenth we shall take the wide-wayed city.' He indeed thus
harangued: and all these things are now in course of accomplishment. But
come, ye well-greaved Greeks, remain all here, until we shall take the
great city of Priam."
