   [Footnote 46: Thebe was situated on the border of Mysia, on the
   mountain Placus, in the district afterwards called Adramyttium.
   The inhabitants were Cilicians.--See Heyne, and De Pinedo on
   Steph. Byz. s.v. p. 307, n. 58.]
   [Footnote 47: There is some doubt whether Homer considered
   Briareus as the son of Neptune or of Uranus and Terra.--See
   Arnold. The fable is ridiculed by Minucius Felix, Sec. 22.]
   [Footnote 48: See Buttm. Lexil. pp. 257, 261, Fishlake's
   translation.]
   [Footnote 49: The idea of infatuation is not, however,
   necessarily implied in [Greek: ate]. See Buttm. Lex. p. 5, sq.]
But him Thetis then answered, shedding down a tear: "Alas! my son,
wherefore have I reared thee, having brought thee forth in an evil hour.
Would that thou wert seated at the ships tearless and uninjured; for thy
destined life is but for a very short period, nor very long; but now art
thou both swift-fated and wretched above all mortals: therefore have I
brought thee forth in my palace under an evil fate. However, to tell thy
words to thunder-delighting Jove, I myself will go to snow-clad Olympus,
if by chance he will be persuaded. But do thou, now sitting at the
swift ships, wage resentment against the Greeks, and totally abstain
from war. For yesterday Jove went to Oceanus,[50] to the blameless
AEthiopians, to a banquet, and with him went all the gods. But on the
twelfth day he will return to Olympus; and then will I go to the
brazen-floored palace of Jove, and suppliantly embrace his knees, and I
think that he will be persuaded."
   [Footnote 50: According to Homer, the earth is a circular plane,
   and Oceanus is an immense stream encircling it, from which the
   different rivers run inward.]
Thus having said, she departed, and left him there wrathful in his soul
for his well-girded maid, whom they had taken from him against his will.
But Ulysses, meantime, came to Chrysa, bringing the sacred hecatomb. But
they, when they had entered the deep haven, first furled their sails,
and stowed them in the sable bark; they next brought the mast to its
receptacle, lowering it quickly by its stays, and they rowed the vessel
forwards with oars into its moorage; they heaved out the sleepers, and
tied the hawsers. They themselves then went forth on the breakers of the
sea, and disembarked the hecatomb to far-darting Apollo, and then they
made the daughter of Chryses descend from the sea-traversing bark. Then
wise Ulysses, leading her to the altar, placed her in the hands of her
dear father, and addressed him:
"O Chryses, Agamemnon, king of men, sent me forth to conduct to thee thy
daughter, and to sacrifice a sacred hecatomb to Phoebus for the Greeks,
that we may appease the king, who now has sent evils fraught with
groanings upon the Argives."
Thus having spoken, he placed her in his hands; but he rejoicing
received his beloved daughter. Then they immediately placed in order the
splendid hecatomb for the god around the well-built altar. After that
they washed their hands, and held up the pounded barley.[51] But for
them, Chryses, uplifting his hands, prayed with loud voice:
