As when a destructive[117] fire consumes an immense forest upon the tops
of a mountain, and the gleam is seen from afar: so, as they advanced,
the radiance from the beaming brass glittering on all sides reached
heaven through the air.
   [Footnote 116: See Liddell and Scott.]
   [Footnote 117: Literally "invisible." Hence "making invisible,
   destructive." Cf. Buttm. Lex. s. v. [Greek: aidelos].]
And of these--like as the numerous nations of winged fowl, of geese, or
cranes, or long-necked swans, on the Asian mead, by the waters of
Cayster, fly on this side and on that, disporting with their wings,
alighting beside each other clamorously, and the meadow resounds--so the
numerous nations of these [the Greeks] from the ships and tents poured
themselves forth into the plain of Scamander, countless as the flowers
and leaves are produced in spring.
As the numerous swarms of clustering flies which congregate round the
shepherd's pen in the spring season, when too the milk overflows the
pails; so numerous stood the head-crested Greeks upon the plain against
the Trojans, eager to break [their lines].
And these,[118] as goat-herds easily separate the broad flocks of the
goats, when they are mingled in the pasture, so did the generals here
and there marshal them to go to battle; and among them commander
Agamemnon, resembling, as to his eyes and head, the thunder-delighting
Jove, as to his middle, Mars, and as to his breast, Neptune.
   [Footnote 118: In [Greek: tous de] there is an anacoluthon
   similar to the one in vs. 459]
As a bull in the herd is greatly eminent above all, for he surpasses the
collected cattle, such on that day did Jove render Agamemnon,
distinguished amongst many, and conspicuous amongst heroes.
Tell me now, ye Muses, who possess the Olympian mansions (for ye are
goddesses, and are [ever] present, and ken all things, whilst we hear
but a rumour, nor know anything[119]), who were the leaders and chiefs
of the Greeks. For I could not recount nor tell the multitude, not even
if ten tongues, and ten mouths were mine, [not though] a voice
unwearied,[120] and a brazen heart were within me; unless the Olympic
Muses, daughters of aegis-bearing Jove, reminded me of how many came to
Ilium. However, I will rehearse the commanders of the ships, and all the
ships.
   [Footnote 119: Cf. AEn. vii. 644:--
       "Et meministis enim, Divae, et memorare potestis:
        Ad nos vix tenuis famae perlabitur aura."
   Milton, Par. Lost, i. 27:--
       "Say first, for Heav'n hides nothing from thy view,
        Nor the deep tract of Hell----"]
   [Footnote 120: Cf. AEn. vi. 625 sqq.; Georg. ii. 42; Valer. Flacc,
   vi. 36; Silius, iv. 527; Claudian, 6 Cons. Hon. 436. This
   hyperbolical mode of excusing poetic powers is ridiculed by
   Persius, Sat. vi. 1.]
                      THE CATALOGUE OF THE SHIPS.
Peneleus, and Leitus, and Arcesilaus, and Prothoenor, and Clonius,
commanded the Boeotians; both those who tilled Hyrie, and rocky Aulis,
and Schoenos, and Scholos, and hilly Eteonus, Thespia, Graea, and the
ample plain of Mycalessus; and those who dwelt about Harma, and Ilesius,
and Erythrae; and those who possessed Elion, Hyle, Peteon, Ocalea, and
the well-built city Medeon, Copae, Eutressis, and Thisbe abounding in
doves; and those who possessed Coronaea, and grassy Haliartus, and
Plataea; and those who inhabited Glissa, and those who dwelt in
Hypothebae, the well-built city, and in sacred Onchestus, the beauteous
grove of Neptune; and those who inhabited grape-clustered Arne, and
those [who inhabited] Midea, and divine Nissa, and remote Anthedon:
fifty ships of these went to Troy, and in each embarked a hundred and
twenty Boeotian youths.
