   [Footnote 88: _I. e._ his real object. Cf. vs. 75, sqq.]
   [Footnote 89: Spitzner and the later editors unite in reading
   [Greek: kinese] for [Greek: kinesei] from the Venice MS. See
   Arnold.]
   [Footnote 90:
                     ----"As thick as when a field
            Of Ceres, ripe for harvest, waving bends
            Her bearded grove of ears, which way the wind
            Sways them."--Paradise Lost, iv. 980.]
"Alas! indomitable daughter of aegis-bearing Jove, thus now shall the
Argives fly home to their dear native land, over the broad back of the
deep, and leave to Priam glory, and to the Trojans Argive Helen, on
whose account many Greeks have perished at Troy, far from their dear
native land? But go now to the people of the brazen-mailed Greeks, and
restrain each man with thy own flattering words, nor suffer them to
launch to the sea their evenly-plied[91] barks." Thus she spoke, nor did
the azure-eyed goddess Minerva refuse compliance. But she, hastening,
descended down from the summits of Olympus, and quickly reached the
swift ships of the Achaeans. Then she found Ulysses, of equal weight with
Jove in counsel, standing still; nor was he touching his well-benched,
sable bark, since regret affected him in heart and mind. But standing
near him, azure-eyed Minerva said:
   [Footnote 91: _I.e._ rowed on both sides. But Rost and Liddell
   (s.v.) prefer "swaying, rocking on both sides."]
"Jove-sprung son of Laertes, Ulysses of many wiles, thus then will ye
fly home to your dear native land, embarking in your many-benched ships?
And will ye then leave to Priam glory, and to the Trojans Argive Helen,
on whose account many Greeks have fallen at Troy, far from their dear
native land? But go now to the people of the Greeks, delay not; and
restrain each man by thy own flattering words, nor suffer them to launch
to the sea their evenly-plied barks."
Thus she spoke, but he knew the voice of the goddess speaking. Then he
hastened to run, and cast away his cloak, but the herald Eurybates, the
Ithacensian, who followed him, took it up. But he, meeting Agamemnon,
son of Atreus, received from him[92] the ever-imperishable paternal
sceptre, with which he went through the ships of the brazen-mailed
Greeks.
   [Footnote 92: This is an instance of the [Greek: schema
   Sikelikon], as in H. O. 88, [Greek: ginetai de paralamxanomenes
   dotikes ptoseos anti genikes kai kata paraleipsin tou para
   protheseos].--Lesbonax, [Greek: peri schem.] r. 181, ed. Valck.]
Whatsoever king, indeed, or distinguished man he chanced to find
standing beside him, he checked him with gentle words:
"Strange man! it ill becomes thee, coward-like, to be in trepidation;
but both sit down thyself, and make the other people sit down, for thou
hast not as yet clearly ascertained what the intention of Atrides is. He
is now making trial of, and will quickly punish the sons of the Greeks.
We have not all heard what he said in council. Take care lest he, being
incensed, do some mischief to the sons of the Greeks. For the anger of a
Jove-nurtured king is great; his honour too is from Jove, and
great-counselling Jove loves him."
