The old man whipped the handkerchief off his eyes, and there the
fisherman found himself on the shores of the sea, where there was
nothing to be seen but water upon one side and rocks and naked sand
upon the other.
"This is the place for you to cast your nets," said the old magician;
"for if we catch nothing here we catch nothing at all."
The fisherman unrolled his nets and cast them and dragged them, and then
cast them and dragged them again, but neither time caught so much as a
herring. But the third time that he cast he found that he had caught
something that weighed as heavy as lead. He pulled and pulled, until
by-and-by he dragged the load ashore, and what should it be but a great
chest of wood, blackened by sea-water, and covered with shells and green
moss.
That was the very thing that the magician had come to fish for. From his
pouch the old man took a little golden key, which he fitted into a
key-hole in the side of the chest. He threw back the lid; the fisherman
looked within, and there was the prettiest little palace that man's eye
ever beheld, all made of mother-of-pearl and silver-frosted as white as
snow. The old magician lifted the little palace out of the box and set
it upon the ground.
Then, lo and behold! a marvelous thing happened; for the palace
instantly began to grow for all the world like a soap-bubble, until it
stood in the moonlight gleaming and glistening like snow, the windows
bright with the lights of a thousand wax tapers, and the sound of music
and voices and laughter coming from within.
Hardly could the fisherman catch his breath from one strange thing when
another happened. The old magician took off his clothes and his
face--yes, his face--for all the world as though it had been a mask, and
there stood as handsome and noble a young man as ever the light looked
on. Then, beckoning to the fisherman, dumb with wonder, he led the way
up the great flight of marble steps to the palace door. As he came the
door swung open with a blaze of light, and there stood hundreds of
noblemen, all clad in silks and satins and velvets, who, when they saw
the magician, bowed low before him, as though he had been a king.
Leading the way, they brought the two through halls and chambers and
room after room, each more magnificent than the other, until they came
to one that surpassed a hundredfold any of the others.
At the farther end was a golden throne, and upon it sat a lady more
lovely and beautiful than a dream, her eyes as bright as diamonds, her
cheeks like rose leaves, and her hair like spun gold. She came half-way
down the steps of the throne to welcome the magician, and when the two
met they kissed one another before all those who were looking on. Then
she brought him to the throne and seated him beside her, and there they
talked for a long time very earnestly.
