Well, on they went, out from the town and across the fields and through
the woods, until at last they came to a dreary, lonesome desert, where
nothing was to be seen but gray rocks and weeds and thistles.
"Well," said the fisherman, "I have fished, man and boy, for forty-seven
years, but never did I see as unlikely a place to catch anything as
this."
But the old man said never a word. First of all he drew a great circle
with strange figures, marking it with his finger upon the ground. Then
out from under his red gown he brought a tinder-box and steel, and a
little silver casket covered all over with strange figures of serpents
and dragons and what not. He brought some sticks of spice-wood from his
pouch, and then he struck a light and made a fire. Out of the box he
took a gray powder, which he flung upon the little blaze.
Puff! flash! A vivid flame went up into the moonlight, and then a dense
smoke as black as ink, which spread out wider and wider, far and near,
till all below was darker than the darkest midnight. Then the old man
began to utter strange spells and words.
Presently there began a rumbling that sounded louder and louder and
nearer and nearer, until it roared and bellowed like thunder. The earth
rocked and swayed, and the poor fisherman shook and trembled with fear
till his teeth chattered in his head.
Then suddenly the roaring and bellowing ceased, and all was as still as
death, though the darkness was as thick and black as ever. "Now," said
the old magician--for such he was--"now we are about to take a journey
such as no one ever traveled before. Heed well what I tell you. Speak
not a single word, for if you do, misfortune will be sure to happen."
"Ain't I to say anything?" said the fisherman.
"No."
"Not even 'boo' to a goose?"
"No."
"Well, that is pretty hard upon a man who likes to say his say," said
the fisherman.
"And moreover," said the old man, "I must blindfold you as well."
Thereupon he took from his pocket a handkerchief, and made ready to tie
it about the fisherman's eyes.
"And ain't I to see anything at all?" said the fisherman.
"No."
"Not even so much as a single feather?"
"No."
"Well, then," said the fisherman, "I wish I'd not come."
But the old man tied the handkerchief tightly around his eyes, and then
he was as blind as a bat.
"Now," said the old man, "throw your leg over what you feel and hold
fast."
The fisherman reached down his hand, and there felt the back of
something rough and hairy. He flung his leg over it, and whisk! whizz!
off he shot through the air like a sky-rocket. Nothing was left for him
to do but grip tightly with hands and feet and to hold fast. On they
went, and on they went, until, after a great while, whatever it was that
was carrying him lit upon the ground, and there the fisherman found
himself standing, for that which had brought him had gone.
