"Ola, Monna Trecca," Bratti proceeded, turning towards an old woman on
the outside of the nearest group, who for the moment had suspended her
wail to listen, and shouting close in her ear: "Here are the mules
upsetting all your bunches of parsley: is the world coming to an end,
then?"
"Monna Trecca" (equivalent to "Dame Greengrocer") turned round at this
unexpected trumpeting in her right ear, with a half-fierce,
half-bewildered look, first at the speaker, then at her disarranged
commodities, and then at the speaker again.
"A bad Easter and a bad year to you, and may you die by the sword!" she
burst out, rushing towards her stall, but directing this first volley of
her wrath against Bratti, who, without heeding the malediction, quietly
slipped into her place, within hearing of the narrative which had been
absorbing her attention; making a sign at the same time to the younger
stranger to keep near him.
"I tell you I saw it myself," said a fat man, with a bunch of
newly-purchased leeks in his hand.  "I was in Santa Maria Novella, and
saw it myself.  The woman started up and threw out her arms, and cried
out and said she saw a big bull with fiery horns coming down on the
church to crush it.  I saw it myself."
"Saw what, Goro?" said a man of slim figure, whose eye twinkled rather
roguishly.  He wore a close jerkin, a skull-cap lodged carelessly over
his left ear as if it had fallen there by chance, a delicate linen apron
tucked up on one side, and a razor stuck in his belt.  "Saw the bull, or
only the woman?"
"Why, the woman, to be sure; but it's all one, _mi pare_: it doesn't
alter the meaning--_va_!" answered the fat man, with some contempt.
"Meaning? no, no; that's clear enough," said several voices at once, and
then followed a confusion of tongues, in which "Lights shooting over San
Lorenzo for three nights together"--"Thunder in the clear
starlight"--"Lantern of the Duomo struck with the sword of Saint
Michael"--"_Palle_" [Arms of the Medici]--"All smashed"--"Lions tearing
each other to pieces"--"Ah! and they might well"--"_Boto [Note 1] caduto
in Santissima Nunziata_!"--"Died like the best of Christians"--"God will
have pardoned him"--were often-repeated phrases, which shot across each
other like storm-driven hailstones, each speaker feeling rather the
necessity of utterance than of finding a listener.  Perhaps the only
silent members of the group were Bratti, who, as a new-comer, was busy
in mentally piecing together the flying fragments of information; the
man of the razor; and a thin-lipped, eager-looking personage in
spectacles, wearing a pen-and-ink case at his belt.
"_Ebbene_, Nello," said Bratti, skirting the group till he was within
hearing of the barber.  "It appears the Magnifico is dead--rest his
soul!--and the price of wax will rise?"
"Even as you say," answered Nello; and then added, with an air of extra
gravity, but with marvellous rapidity, "and his waxen image in the
Nunziata fell at the same moment, they say; or at some other time,
whenever it pleases the Frati Serviti, who know best.  And several cows
and women have had still-born calves this Quaresima; and for the bad
eggs that have been broken since the Carnival, nobody has counted them.
Ah! a great man--a great politician--a greater poet than Dante.  And yet
the cupola didn't fall, only the lantern.  _Che miracolo_!"
