"Mysteries they may well be called," continued the barber, with rising
spirits at the prospect of a long monologue, as he imprisoned the young
Greek in the shroud-like shaving-cloth; "mysteries of Minerva and the
Graces.  I get the flower of men's thoughts, because I seize them in the
first moment after shaving.  (Ah! you wince a little at the lather: it
tickles the outlying limits of the nose, I admit.)  And that is what
makes the peculiar fitness of a barber's shop to become a resort of wit
and learning.  For, look now at a druggist's shop: there is a dull
conclave at the sign of `The Moor,' that pretends to rival mine; but
what sort of inspiration, I beseech you, can be got from the scent of
nauseous vegetable decoctions?--to say nothing of the fact that you no
sooner pass the threshold than you see a doctor of physic, like a
gigantic spider disguised in fur and scarlet, waiting for his prey; or
even see him blocking up the doorway seated on a bony hack, inspecting
saliva.  (Your chin a little elevated, if it please you: contemplate
that angel who is blowing the trumpet at you from the ceiling.  I had it
painted expressly for the regulation of my clients' chins.)  Besides,
your druggist, who herborises and decocts, is a man of prejudices: he
has poisoned people according to a system, and is obliged to stand up
for his system to justify the consequences.  Now a barber can be
dispassionate; the only thing he necessarily stands by is the razor,
always providing he is not an author.  That was the flaw in my great
predecessor Burchiello: he was a poet, and had consequently a prejudice
about his own poetry.  I have escaped that; I saw very early that
authorship is a narrowing business, in conflict with the liberal art of
the razor, which demands an impartial affection for all men's chins.
Ecco, Messer! the outline of your chin and lip is as clear as a
maiden's; and now fix your mind on a knotty question--ask yourself
whether you are bound to spell Virgil with an _i_ or an _e_, and say if
you do not feel an unwonted clearness on the point.  Only, if you decide
for the _i_, keep it to yourself till your fortune is made, for the _e_
hath the stronger following in Florence.  Ah!  I think I see a gleam of
still quicker wit in your eye.  I have it on the authority of our young
Niccolo Macchiavelli, himself keen enough to discern _il pelo nell'
uovo_, as we say, and a great lover of delicate shaving, though his
beard is hardly of two years' date, that no sooner do the hairs begin to
push themselves, than he perceives a certain grossness of apprehension
creeping over him."
"Suppose you let me look at myself," said the stranger, laughing.  "The
happy effect on my intellect is perhaps obstructed by a little doubt as
to the effect on my appearance."
