The door opened, and a thick-set, heavy-looking young man entered, with
the flushed face and the gratuitously elated bearing which mark the
first stage of intoxication.  It was Dunsey, and at the sight of him
Godfrey's face parted with some of its gloom to take on the more active
expression of hatred.  The handsome brown spaniel that lay on the
hearth retreated under the chair in the chimney-corner.
"Well, Master Godfrey, what do you want with me?"  said Dunsey, in a
mocking tone.  "You're my elders and betters, you know; I was obliged
to come when you sent for me."
"Why, this is what I want--and just shake yourself sober and listen,
will you?"  said Godfrey, savagely.  He had himself been drinking more
than was good for him, trying to turn his gloom into uncalculating
anger.  "I want to tell you, I must hand over that rent of Fowler's to
the Squire, or else tell him I gave it you; for he's threatening to
distrain for it, and it'll all be out soon, whether I tell him or not.
He said, just now, before he went out, he should send word to Cox to
distrain, if Fowler didn't come and pay up his arrears this week.  The
Squire's short o' cash, and in no humour to stand any nonsense; and you
know what he threatened, if ever he found you making away with his
money again.  So, see and get the money, and pretty quickly, will you?"
"Oh!"  said Dunsey, sneeringly, coming nearer to his brother and
looking in his face.  "Suppose, now, you get the money yourself, and
save me the trouble, eh?  Since you was so kind as to hand it over to
me, you'll not refuse me the kindness to pay it back for me: it was
your brotherly love made you do it, you know."
Godfrey bit his lips and clenched his fist.  "Don't come near me with
that look, else I'll knock you down."
"Oh no, you won't," said Dunsey, turning away on his heel, however.
"Because I'm such a good-natured brother, you know. I might get you
turned out of house and home, and cut off with a shilling any day.  I
might tell the Squire how his handsome son was married to that nice
young woman, Molly Farren, and was very unhappy because he couldn't
live with his drunken wife, and I should slip into your place as
comfortable as could be.  But you see, I don't do it--I'm so easy and
good-natured.  You'll take any trouble for me. You'll get the hundred
pounds for me--I know you will."
"How can I get the money?"  said Godfrey, quivering.  "I haven't a
shilling to bless myself with.  And it's a lie that you'd slip into my
place: you'd get yourself turned out too, that's all.  For if you begin
telling tales, I'll follow.  Bob's my father's favourite--you know that
very well.  He'd only think himself well rid of you."
"Never mind," said Dunsey, nodding his head sideways as he looked out
of the window.  "It 'ud be very pleasant to me to go in your
company--you're such a handsome brother, and we've always been so fond
of quarrelling with one another, I shouldn't know what to do without
you.  But you'd like better for us both to stay at home together; I
know you would.  So you'll manage to get that little sum o' money, and
I'll bid you good-bye, though I'm sorry to part."
