"Well, then, I wish you'd keep hold o' the tune, when it's set for you;
if you're for prac_tis_ing, I wish you'd prac_tise_ that," said a large
jocose-looking man, an excellent wheelwright in his week-day capacity,
but on Sundays leader of the choir.  He winked, as he spoke, at two of
the company, who were known officially as the "bassoon" and the
"key-bugle", in the confidence that he was expressing the sense of the
musical profession in Raveloe.
Mr. Tookey, the deputy-clerk, who shared the unpopularity common to
deputies, turned very red, but replied, with careful moderation--"Mr.
Winthrop, if you'll bring me any proof as I'm in the wrong, I'm not the
man to say I won't alter.  But there's people set up their own ears for
a standard, and expect the whole choir to follow 'em.  There may be two
opinions, I hope."
"Aye, aye," said Mr. Macey, who felt very well satisfied with this
attack on youthful presumption; "you're right there, Tookey: there's
allays two 'pinions; there's the 'pinion a man has of himsen, and
there's the 'pinion other folks have on him.  There'd be two 'pinions
about a cracked bell, if the bell could hear itself."
"Well, Mr. Macey," said poor Tookey, serious amidst the general
laughter, "I undertook to partially fill up the office of parish-clerk
by Mr. Crackenthorp's desire, whenever your infirmities should make you
unfitting; and it's one of the rights thereof to sing in the
choir--else why have you done the same yourself?"
"Ah! but the old gentleman and you are two folks," said Ben Winthrop.
"The old gentleman's got a gift.  Why, the Squire used to invite him to
take a glass, only to hear him sing the "Red Rovier"; didn't he, Mr.
Macey?  It's a nat'ral gift.  There's my little lad Aaron, he's got a
gift--he can sing a tune off straight, like a throstle.  But as for
you, Master Tookey, you'd better stick to your "Amens": your voice is
well enough when you keep it up in your nose.  It's your inside as
isn't right made for music: it's no better nor a hollow stalk."
This kind of unflinching frankness was the most piquant form of joke to
the company at the Rainbow, and Ben Winthrop's insult was felt by
everybody to have capped Mr. Macey's epigram.
"I see what it is plain enough," said Mr. Tookey, unable to keep cool
any longer.  "There's a consperacy to turn me out o' the choir, as I
shouldn't share the Christmas money--that's where it is.  But I shall
speak to Mr. Crackenthorp; I'll not be put upon by no man."
"Nay, nay, Tookey," said Ben Winthrop.  "We'll pay you your share to
keep out of it--that's what we'll do.  There's things folks 'ud pay to
be rid on, besides varmin."
"Come, come," said the landlord, who felt that paying people for their
absence was a principle dangerous to society; "a joke's a joke.  We're
all good friends here, I hope.  We must give and take. You're both
right and you're both wrong, as I say.  I agree wi' Mr. Macey here, as
there's two opinions; and if mine was asked, I should say they're both
right.  Tookey's right and Winthrop's right, and they've only got to
split the difference and make themselves even."
