Why had Mr. Gilfil in those late years of his beneficent life "more of
the knots and ruggedness of poor human nature than there lay any clear
hint of it in the open-eyed, loving" young Maynard?  Because "it is with
men as with trees: if you lop off their finest branches into which they
were pouring their young life-juice, the wounds will be healed over with
some rough boss, some odd excrescence, and what might have been a grand
tree, expanding into liberal shade, is but a whimsical, misshapen trunk.
Many an irritating fault, many an unlovely oddity, has come of a hard
sorrow which has crushed and maimed the nature just when it was expanding
into plenteous beauty; and the trivial, erring life, which we visit with
our harsh blame, may be but as the unsteady motion of a man whose best
limb is withered.  The dear old Vicar had been sketched out by nature as
a noble tree.  The heart of him was sound, the grain was of the finest,
and in the gray-haired man, with his slipshod talk and caustic tongue,
there was the main trunk of the same brave, faithful, tender nature that
had poured out the finest, freshest forces of its life-current in a first
and only love."
Her style is influenced by her purpose--may be said, indeed, to be
created by it.  The excellences and the blemishes of the diction come of
the end sought to be attained by it.  Its subtleties and obscurities were
equally inevitable.  Analytical thinking takes on an analytical
phraseology.  It is a striking instance of a mental habit creating a
vocabulary.  The method of thought produces the form of rhetoric.  Some
of the sentences are mental landscapes.  The meaning seems to be in
motion on the page.  It is elusive from its very subtlety.  It is more
our analyst than her character of Rufus Lyon, who "would fain find
language subtle enough to follow the utmost intricacies of the soul's
pathways."  Mrs. Transome's "lancet-edged epigrams" are dull in
comparison with her own.  She uses them with startling success in
dissecting motive and analyzing feeling.  They deserve as great renown as
"Nelaton's probe."
For example: "Examine your words well, and you will find that even when
you have no motive to be false, it is a very hard thing to say the exact
truth, especially about your own feelings--much harder than to say
something fine about them which is not the exact truth."  That ought to
make such a revelation of the religious diary-keeper to himself as to
make him ashamed of himself.  And this will fit in here: "Our consciences
are not of the same pattern, an inner deliverance of fixed laws--they are
the voice of sensibilities as various as our memories;" and this: "Every
strong feeling makes to itself a conscience of its own--has its own
piety."
Who can say that the joints of his armor are not open to this thrust?
"The lapse of time during which a given event has not happened is in the
logic of habit, constantly alleged as a reason why the event should never
happen, even when the lapse of time is precisely the added condition
which makes the event imminent.  A man will tell you that he worked in a
mine for forty years unhurt by an accident as a reason why he should
apprehend no danger, though the roof is beginning to sink."  Silas Marner
lost his money through his "sense of security," which "more frequently
springs from habit than conviction."  He went unrobbed for fifteen years,
which supplied the only needed condition for his being robbed now.  A
compensation for stupidity: "If we had a keen vision and feeling of all
ordinary human life, it would be like hearing the grass grow and the
squirrel's heart beat, and we should die of that roar that lies on the
other side of silence.  As it is, the quickest of us walk about well
wadded with stupidity."  Who does not at once recognize "that mixture of
pushing forward and being pushed forward" as "the brief history of most
human beings?"  Who has not seen "advancement hindered by impetuous
candor?" or "private grudges christened by the name of public zeal?" or
"a church built with an exuberance of faith and a deficiency of funds?"
or a man "who would march determinedly along the road he thought best,
but who was easily convinced which was best?" or a preacher "whose
oratory was like a Belgian railway horn, which shows praiseworthy
intentions inadequately fulfilled?"
