    "It was only the excess of a delicacy which can be really understood,
    and a sort of fidelity to the character of _precieuse_.  As the
    _precieuse_ did nothing according to common usage, she could not dine
    like another.  We have cited a passage from Mme. de Motteville, where
    Mme. de Sable is represented in her first youth at the Hotel de
    Rambouillet, maintaining that woman is born to be an ornament to the
    world, and to receive the adoration of men.  The woman worthy of the
    name ought always to appear above material wants, and retain, even in
    the most vulgar details of life, something distinguished and
    purified.  Eating is a very necessary operation, but one which is not
    agreeable to the eye.  Mme. de Sable insisted on its being conducted
    with a peculiar cleanliness.  According to her it was not every woman
    who could with impunity be at table in the presence of a lover; the
    first distortion of the face, she said, would be enough to spoil all.
    Gross meals made for the body merely ought to be abandoned to
    _bourgeoises_, and the refined woman should appear to take a little
    nourishment merely to sustain her, and even to divert her, as one
    takes refreshments and ices.  Wealth did not suffice for this: a
    particular talent was required.  Mme. de Sable was a mistress in this
    art.  She had transported the aristocratic spirit, and the _genre
    precieux_, good breeding and good taste, even into cookery.  Her
    dinners, without any opulence, were celebrated and sought after."
It is quite in accordance with all this that Madame de Sable should
delight in fine scents, and we find that she did; for being threatened,
in her Port Royal days, when she was at an advanced age, with the loss of
smell, and writing for sympathy and information to Mere Agnes, who had
lost that sense early in life, she receives this admonition from the
stern saint: "You would gain by this loss, my very dear sister, if you
made use of it as a satisfaction to God, for having had too much pleasure
in delicious scents."  Scarron describes her as
    "La non pareille Bois-Dauphine,
    _Entre dames perle tres fine_,"
and the superlative delicacy implied by this epithet seems to have
belonged equally to her personal habits, her affections, and her
intellect.
Madame de Sable's life, for anything we know, flowed on evenly enough
until 1640, when the death of her husband threw upon her the care of an
embarrassed fortune.  She found a friend in Rene de Longueil, Seigneur de
Maisons, of whom we are content to know no more than that he helped
Madame de Sable to arrange her affairs, though only by means of
alienating from her family the estate of Sable, that his house was her
refuge during the blockade of Paris in 1649, and that she was not
unmindful of her obligations to him, when, subsequently, her credit could
be serviceable to him at court.  In the midst of these pecuniary troubles
came a more terrible trial--the loss of her favorite son, the brave and
handsome Guy de Laval, who, after a brilliant career in the campaigns of
Conde, was killed at the siege of Dunkirk, in 1646, when scarcely
four-and-twenty.  The fine qualities of this young man had endeared him
to the whole army, and especially to Conde, had won him the hand of the
Chancellor Seguire's daughter, and had thus opened to him the prospect of
the highest honors.  His loss seems to have been the most real sorrow of
Madame de Sable's life.  Soon after followed the commotions of the
Fronde, which put a stop to social intercourse, and threw the closest
friends into opposite ranks.  According to Lenet, who relies on the
authority of Gourville, Madame de Sable was under strong obligations to
the court, being in the receipt of a pension of 2000 crowns; at all
events, she adhered throughout to the Queen and Mazarin, but being as far
as possible from a fierce partisan, and given both by disposition and
judgment to hear both sides of the question, she acted as a conciliator,
and retained her friends of both parties.  The Countess de Maure, whose
husband was the most obstinate of _frondeurs_, remained throughout her
most cherished friend, and she kept up a constant correspondence with the
lovely and intrepid heroine of the Fronde, Madame de Longueville.  Her
activity was directed to the extinction of animosities, by bringing about
marriages between the Montagues and Capulets of the Fronde--between the
Prince de Conde, or his brother, and the niece of Mazarin, or between the
three nieces of Mazarin and the sons of three noblemen who were
distinguished leaders of the Fronde.  Though her projects were not
realized, her conciliatory position enabled her to preserve all her
friendships intact, and when the political tempest was over, she could
assemble around her in her residence, in the Place Royal, the same
society as before.  Madame de Sable was now approaching her twelfth
_lustrum_, and though the charms of her mind and character made her more
sought after than most younger women, it is not surprising that, sharing
as she did in the religious ideas of her time, the concerns of
"salvation" seemed to become pressing.  A religious retirement, which did
not exclude the reception of literary friends or the care for personal
comforts, made the most becoming frame for age and diminished fortune.
Jansenism was then to ordinary Catholicism what Puseyism is to ordinary
Church of Englandism in these days--it was a _recherche_ form of piety
unshared by the vulgar; and one sees at once that it must have special
attractions for the _precieuse_.  Madame de Sable, then, probably about
1655 or '56, determined to retire to Port Royal, not because she was
already devout, but because she hoped to become so; as, however, she
wished to retain the pleasure of intercourse with friends who were still
worldly, she built for herself a set of apartments at once distinct from
the monastery and attached to it.  Here, with a comfortable
establishment, consisting of her secretary, Dr. Valant, Mademoiselle de
Chalais, formerly her _dame de compagnie_, and now become her friend; an
excellent cook; a few other servants, and for a considerable time a
carriage and coachman; with her best friends within a moderate distance,
she could, as M. Cousin says, be out of the noise of the world without
altogether forsaking it, preserve her dearest friendships, and have
before her eyes edifying examples--"vaquer enfin a son aise aux soins de
son salut et a ceux de sa sante."
