And so, with the beginning of his second period of genius, the reading
of Mr James ceased to give us the companionship of the gentle, very
pleasant American who seemed homeless but quite serene, as though he
were tired of living in his boxes, but on the other hand was very fond
of travelling, that we had grown to like in his books of the eighties.
He went away and sent no letter; but instead, with a lavishness one
would never have suspected from his uneasy bearing, sent a succession of
jewels, great globed jewels of experience, from which marvellously
conceived characters gave out their milky gleams or fiery rays. The
first tentative try at the mere impression, _The Aspern Papers_ (1888),
gave an earnest of his generosity. There one passes into the golden glow
of Venice, "where the sky and the sea and the rosy air and the marble of
the palaces all shimmer and melt together.... The gondola stopped, the
old palace was there.... How charming! it's grey and pink!" And under
the painted ceiling of the old palace sits bleached and shrivelled
Juliana Bordereau, the memory of her love affair with the great poet
Aspern hanging in the air like incense and filling the mind with tears
that such splendid lovers buy no immortality, but grow old like the
rest. Above its mere amusing story the tale breathes an elegy on the
many good things that are slain by age before death comes and decently
inters the body. For one watches, with a kind of comic horror that such
grimaces should touch the face that Jeffery Aspern kissed, the grin of
senile irony with which she meets the young American who comes to
wheedle her lover's letters out of her, with which she wheedles money
out of him that she may provide for the future of the poor spinster
niece who moves tremulously about her chair like a silly baaing sheep;
with which, one thinks, she possibly anticipates the dreadful moment
after her death when the spinster dodderingly informs the American that
she could give him her aunt's papers only "if you were a relation ... if
you weren't a stranger...." Every drop of beauty is squeezed out of the
material by a pressure so cool and controlled that, remembering how
Benvenuto Cellini "fell in his clothes and slept" after he had taken
similar small masterpieces from the furnace, one waits for his
exhaustion. But it was given to Mr James, perhaps because he was an
American and so of a stock oxygenated by contact with the free airs of
the new free lands, to swim longer in the sea of perfection than any
other writer. It was not until fifteen years later, when he was old and
the disciples of the movement which had stimulated him all shabbily
dead, and talk about art locked away in a dusty cupboard with the
Japanese fans and the blue china pots, that he turned tired and came to
shore.
