And as regards the statement in prose of the conception thus formed it
is plain that, although Mr James had formed his irrational dislike of
Flaubert many years before, it was that great master who had taught him
his art of rubbing down the too brilliant phrase to tone with the quiet
harmony of the whole, of obliterating the exotic effect that would
compromise the lorn simplicity of the subject. This masterly use of
technical resource to unfold an idea whose beauty would to a lesser
artist have seemed hopelessly sheathed in obscurity, makes _Washington
Square_ the perfect termination to Mr James' first period of genius.
It was unfortunately quite definitely a termination; for until ten years
had passed Mr James was doomed to produce no work which was not to have
the solidity of its characters and the beauty of its prose rendered
slightly ridiculous by its lack of purpose and unity. In those days,
when the international theme was slipping from Mr James' grasp and he
was looking round for another, one could no more expect him to produce
work completely and serenely formed by the imagination than one could
ask an author to continue his industry on a journey from Paris to
Madrid, with the jolting of the train destroying his physical calm and
the new land crying for his attention at the carriage window. For Mr
James was literally travelling all through the eighties; he was touring
either the countries of Europe with his body or the art of Europe with
his mind. It was his intention to find that intellectual basis without
which, his blood and upbringing assured him, he would be unable to use
his genius with noble or permanent results.
How difficult this search was to be, and yet how ultimately fruitful,
can be judged from _A Little Tour in France_ (1884). That is one of the
happiest and sunniest travel books in all literature. _Coelum non
animum mutant qui trans mare currunt_; but Mr James did, and it is as
pleasant to see his intelligence sunning itself on the hot Latin soil,
fresh and cool as though he had not years of the creative struggle
behind him and years more to come, as it is to see a lizard crawl from
the crevice of a Provencal rock and play among the tufts of rosemary.
Yet whenever Mr James has to note some detail in his description of
French towns which refers to the life which has formed them, the
reader's fury mounts. It is horrible that his references to the
Franco-Prussian War should be faintly jocular, and one burns with shame
for them until one comes to an amazing sentence about the French
Revolution, in which it is plainly implied that the rightness and
necessity of that declaration of the principle of freedom are still
debatable questions. One perceives with relief that he said these things
because, as one guessed in _The Passionate Pilgrim_, his strong sight of
the thing that is was accompanied by blindness to the thing that has
been. He did not know whether the Franco-Prussian War was horrible or
not, because he had been out of Europe when it raged; and because he had
not been born at the time he could no more speak well of the French
Revolution than he could propose for his club a person whom he had never
met. And for the same reason he failed to envisage the Roman Empire save
as a source of agreeable ruins which, since he did not understand the
spirit that built them, he imagined might have been made still more
agreeable. Their vastness did not impress him as the merging-point of
the geological record and history, but stirred in him that benevolence
which is often aroused by clumsy largeness. He patted the Roman Theatre
at Arles as though it were Jumbo at the Zoo, and remarked, quite in the
manner of Horace Walpole, that the pavement of coloured marble "gives an
idea of the _elegance_ of the interior"; but the arena at Nimes and that
vast, high, yellow aqueduct, whose three tiers appal the valley of the
Gardon, were too much for him, and he pronounced them "not at all
_exquisite_." The man who could write those phrases was incapable of
forming a philosophy, for no man can fully understand his kind unless he
have a revelation of old Rome and perceive in its works a record of the
pride men felt in serviceable labour for the State. And yet what, in
this particular case, did all that matter? What need was there for Mr
James to know anything but that ink makes black, expressive marks on
paper, when he could tell so exquisitely how the Chateau de Chenonceaux
sends out its white galleries across the clear water of the Cher, how
the crenellated ramparts of the Chateau d'Amboise look down over hanging
gardens to the far-shining Loire, and with what peculiar wonder
Carcassonne, Aigues-Mortes and all the other towns with lovely names,
glow in the clear bright light of France? It was enough that there was
no beauty on earth that could daunt his power of description.
