I hoped that Kitty would let her go without scarring her too much with
words and would not mind if I gave her a little money. There was no
doubt in my mind but that this queer, ugly episode in which this woman
butted like a clumsy animal at a gate she was not intelligent enough to
open would dissolve and be replaced by some more pleasing composition in
which we would take our proper parts; in which, that is, she would turn
from our rightness ashamed. Yet she cried:
"But Chris is ill!"
It took only a second for the compact insolence of the moment to
penetrate, the amazing impertinence of the use of his name, the
accusation of callousness she brought against us whose passion for Chris
was our point of honor, because we would not shriek at her false news,
the impudently bright, indignant gaze she flung at us, the lift of her
voice that pretended she could not understand our coolness and
irrelevance. I pushed the purse away from me with my toe, and hated her
as the rich hate the poor as insect things that will struggle out of the
crannies which are their decent home and introduce ugliness to the light
of day. And Kitty said in a voice shaken with pitilessness:
"You are impertinent. I know exactly what you are doing. You have read
in the 'Harrow Observer' or somewhere that my husband is at the front,
and you come to tell this story because you think that you will get some
money. I've read of such cases in the papers. You forget that if
anything had happened to my husband the War Office would have told me.
You should think yourself very lucky that I don't hand you over to the
police." She shrilled a little before she came to the end. "Please go!"
"Kitty!" I breathed. I was so ashamed that such a scene should spring
from Chris's peril at the front that I wanted to go out into the garden
and sit by the pond until the poor thing had removed her deplorable
umbrella, her unpardonable raincoat, her poor frustrated fraud. But Mrs.
Grey, who had begun childishly and deliberately, "It's _you_ who are
being--" and had desisted simply because she realized that there were no
harsh notes on her lyre, and that she could not strike these chords
that others found so easy, had fixed me with a certain wet, clear,
patient gaze. It is the gift of animals and those of peasant stock. From
the least regarded, from an old horse nosing over a gate, or a drab in a
work-house ward, it wrings the heart. From this woman--I said
checkingly:
"Kitty!" and reconciled her in an undertone. "There's some mistake. Got
the name wrong, perhaps. Please tell us all about it."
Mrs. Grey began a forward movement like a curtsy. She was groveling
after that purse. When she rose, her face was pink from stooping, and
her dignity swam uncertainly in a sea of half-shed tears. She said:
