Kitty shook her head.
"I don't know."
"Griffiths will know," Chris said cheerily, and swung round on his seat
to ask the butler, and found him osseous, where Griffiths was rotund;
dark, where Griffiths had been merrily mottled; strange, where Griffiths
had been a part of home, a condition of life. He sat back in his chair
as though his heart had stopped.
When the butler who is not Griffiths had left the room he spoke gruffly.
"Stupid of me, I know; but where is Griffiths?"
"Dead seven years ago," said Kitty, her eyes on her plate.
He sighed deeply in a shuddering horror.
"I'm sorry. He was a good man."
I cleared my throat.
"There are new people here, Chris, but they love you as the old ones
did."
He forced himself to smile at us both, to a gay response.
"As if I didn't know that to-night!"
But he did not know it. Even to me he would give no trust, because it
was Jenny the girl who had been his friend and not Jenny the woman. All
the inhabitants at this new tract of time were his enemies, all its
circumstances his prison-bars. There was suspicion in the gesture with
which, when we were back in the drawing-room he picked up the flannel
from the work-table.
"Whose is this?" he said curiously. His mother had been a hard-riding
woman, not apt with her needle.
"Clothes for one of the cottages," answered Kitty, breathlessly.
"We--we've a lot of responsibilities, you and I. With all of the land
you've bought, there are ever so many people to look after."
He moved his shoulders uneasily, as if under a yoke, and, after he had
drunk his coffee, pulled up one of the blinds and went out to pace the
flagged walk under the windows. Kitty huddled carelessly by the fire,
her hands over her face, unheeding by its red glow she looked not so
virginal and bride-like; so I think she was too distracted even to plan.
I went to the piano. Through this evening of sentences cut short because
their completed meaning was always sorrow, of normal life dissolved to
tears, the chords of Beethoven sounded serenely.
"So you like Jenny," said Kitty, suddenly, "to play Beethoven when it's
the war that's caused all this. I could have told that you would have
chosen to play German music this night of all nights."
So I began a saraband by Purcell, a jolly thing that makes one see a
plump, sound woman dancing on a sanded floor in some old inn, with
casks of good ale all about her and a world of sunshine and May lanes
without. As I played I wondered if things like this happened when
Purcell wrote such music, empty of everything except laughter and simple
greeds and satisfactions and at worst the wail of unrequited love. Why
had modern life brought forth these horrors, which made the old
tragedies seem no more than nursery-shows? And the sky also is
different. Behind Chris's head, as he halted at the open window, a
search-light turned all ways in the night, like a sword brandished among
the stars.
