And as he spoke, her warm body melted to nothingness in his arms. The
columns that had stood so hard and black against the quivering tide of
moonlight and starlight seemed to totter and dissolve. He was lying in a
hateful world where barbed-wire entanglements showed impish knots
against a livid sky full of blooming noise and splashes of fire and
wails for water, and his back was hurting intolerably.
Chris fell to blowing out the candles, and I, perhaps because the
egotistical part of me was looking for something to say that would make
him feel me devoted and intimate, could not speak.
Suddenly he desisted, stared at a candle-flame, and said:
"If you had seen the way she rested her cheek against the glass and
looked into the little room you'd understand that I can't say, 'Yes,
Kitty's my wife, and Margaret somehow just nothing at all.'"
"Of course you can't," I murmured sympathetically.
We gripped hands, and he brought down on our conversation the finality
of darkness.
CHAPTER IV
Next morning it appeared that the chauffeur had taken the car up to town
to get a part replaced, and Margaret could not be brought from
Wealdstone till the afternoon. It fell to me to fetch her. "At least,"
Kitty had said, "I might be spared that humiliation." Before I started I
went to the pond on the hill's edge. It is a place where autumn lives
for half the year, for even when the spring lights tongues of green fire
in the undergrowth, and the valley shows sunlit between the tree-trunks,
here the pond is fringed with yellow bracken and tinted bramble, and the
water flows amber over last winter's leaves.
Through this brown gloom, darkened now by a surly sky, Chris was taking
the skiff, standing in the stern and using his oar like a gondolier. He
had come down here soon after breakfast, driven from the house by the
strangeness of all but the outer walls, and discontented with the
grounds because everything but this wet, intractable spot bore the marks
of Kitty's genius. After lunch there had been another attempt to settle
down, but with a grim glare at a knot of late Christmas roses bright in
a copse that fifteen years ago had been dark he went back to the
russet-eaved boat-house and this play with the skiff. It was a boy's
sport, and it was dreadful to see him turn a middle-aged face as he
brought the boat inshore.
"I'm just going down to fetch Margaret," I said.
He thanked me for it.
"But, Chris, I must tell you. I've seen Margaret. She came up here, so
kind and sweet, to tell us you were wounded. She's the greatest dear in
the world, but she's not as you think of her. She's old, Chris. She
isn't beautiful any longer. She's drearily married. She's seamed and
scored and ravaged by squalid circumstances. You can't love her when you
see her."
"Didn't I tell you last night," he said, "that that doesn't matter?" He
dipped his oar to a stroke that sent him away from me. "Bring her soon.
I shall wait for her down here."
