"Och, aye!" said Mr. Philip, which was a sure sign that he was upset,
for in business he reckoned to say "Yes, yes." The two men began by
exchange of politenesses about Mr. Frank Gibson, to whom they referred
in the impersonal way of business conversations as though he were some
well-known brand of integrity, and then proceeded to divest the property
in Rio de Janeiro of all interest in a like manner. It was a house, it
appeared, and was at present let to an American named Capel on a five
years' lease, which had nearly expired. There was no likelihood of Capel
requiring any extension of this lease, for he was going back to the
States. So now Yaverland wanted to sell it. There ought to be no trouble
in finding a buyer, for it was a famous house. "Everybody in Rio knows
the Villa Miraflores," he said. She gasped at the name and wrote it in
longhand; to compress such deliciousness into shorthand would have been
sacrilege. After that she listened more eagerly to his voice, which she
perceived was charged with suppressed magic as it might have been with
suppressed laughter. The merry find no more difficulty in keeping a
straight face than he found in using the flat phrase. And as she
gleefully gazed at him, recognising in him her sort of person, his
speech slipped the business leash. There were hedges of geranium and
poinsettia about the villa, pergolas hung with bougainvillea, numberless
palms, and a very pleasant orange grove in good bearing; in the
courtyard a bronze Venus rode on a sprouting whale, and there were many
fountains; and within there was much white marble and pillars of
precious stone, and horrible liverish Viennese mosaics, for the house
was something of a prodigy, having been built in a trade boom by a
_rastaqouere_. "Mhm," said Mr. Philip sagaciously, and from the funeral
slide of respect in his voice Ellen guessed that he imagined
_rastaqouere_ to be a Brazilian variety of Lord Provost. She would have
laughed had there not been the plainest intimation that he was still
upset about something in his question whether Yaverland thought he
would be well advised to sell the house, whether he had any reasonable
expectation of recovering the capital he had sunk in it; for she had
noticed that whenever Mr. Philip felt miserable he was wont to try and
cheer himself by suggesting that somebody had been "done."
But that worry was dissolved by the enchantment of Yaverland's answer.
He hadn't the slightest idea what he had paid for the villa. It happened
this way. He had won a lot of money at poker ("Tchk! Tchk!" said Mr.
Philip, half shocked, but showing by the way he put one thumb in his
waistcoat arm-hole that he was so far sensible of the change in the
atmosphere that he felt the need of some romantic gesture), and had felt
no shame in pocketing it since it came from a man who was gambling to
try to show that he wasn't a Jew. Ellen hated him for that. She believed
in absolute racial equality, and sometimes intended to marry a Hindu as
a propagandist measure. And then he had remembered that a friend of his,
de Cayagun of the Villa Miraflores, was broke and wanted to move. Even
Rio was tired of poor de Cayagun, though he'd given it plenty of fun.
There had been great times at the villa. His phrases, which seemed to
have scent and colour as well as meaning, made her see red pools of wine
on the marble floor and rose wreaths about the bronze whale's snout, and
hear from the orange grove the sound of harps, yet from a sullenness in
his faint smile she deduced there had been something dark in this
delight. Perhaps somebody had got drunk. But he was saying now that that
time had come to an end long before the night when he had won this money
from Demetrios. De Cayagun had no more jewels to give away and even the
servants had all left him.... She saw night invading the villa like a
sickness of the light, the pools of wine lying black on marble that the
dusk had made blue like cold flesh; and this stranger standing
white-faced in the stripped banquet-hall, with the broken body of the
Venus on a bier at his feet and above his head the creaking wings of
birds come to establish desolation under the shattered roof. Why was he
so sad because some people who were members of the parasite class and
were probably devoid of all political idealism had had to stop having a
good time? It was, she supposed, that ethereal abstract sorrow, undimmed
by personal misery and unconfined by the syllogisms of moral judgment,
that poets feel: that Milton had felt when he wrote "Comus" about
somebody for whom he probably wouldn't have mixed a toddy, that she
herself had often felt when the evening star shone its small perfect
crescent above the funeral flame of the day. People would call it a
piece of play-acting nonsense just because of its purity and their
inveterate peering liking for personal emotion, which they seemed to
honour according to its intensity even if that intensity progressed
towards the disagreeable. She remembered how the neighbours had all
respected Mrs. Ball in the house next door for the terrific
manifestations of her abandonment to the grief of widowhood. "Tits,
tits, puir body!" they had said with zestful reverence, and yet the
woman had been behaving exactly as if she was seasick. She preferred the
impersonal pang. It was right. Right as the furniture in the Chambers
Museum was, as the clothes in Redfern's window in Princes Street were,
as this stranger was. And it had a high meaning too. It was evoked by
the end of things, by sunsets, by death, by silence, following song; by
intimations that no motion is perpetual and that death is a part of the
cosmic process. It had the sacred quality of any recognition of the
truth....
