He put his papers on the table and sat down by the fire. "Well, what
should happen? No news is good news, I've heard!"
She continued to disclose herself to him without the impediment of
shyness, for he was unattractive to her because he had an Edinburgh
accent and always carried an umbrella. He was so like hundreds of young
men in the town, dark and sleek-headed and sturdily under-sized, with an
air of sagacity and consciously shrewd eyes under a projecting brow,
that it seemed like uttering one's complaint before a jury or some other
representative body. She believed, too, that he was not one of the
impeccable and happy to whom one dare not disclose one's need for pity,
for she was sure that the clipped speech that slid through his
half-opened mouth was a sign that secretly he was timid and ashamed. So
she cried honestly, "I'm so dull that I'll die. You and Mr. James are
awfully good to me, and I can put up with Mr. Morrison, though he's a
doited old thing, and I like my work, but coming here in the morning and
going home at night, day in and day out, it drives me crazy. I don't
know what's the matter with me, but I want to run away to new places and
see new people. This morning I was running to catch the tram and I saw
the old wife who lives in the wee house by the cycle shop had put a bit
heather in a glass bottle at the window, and do you know, I was near
turning my back and going off to the Pentlands and letting the work go
hang!"
They were both law-abiding people. They saw the gravity of her case.
"Not that I want the Pentlands. Dear knows I love the place, but I want
something more than those old hills. I want to go somewhere right far
away. The sight of a map makes me sick. And then I hear a band play--not
the pipes, they make me think of Walter Scott's poetry, which I never
could bear, but a band. I feel that if I followed it it would lead me
somewhere that I would like to go. And the posters. There's one at the
Waverley station--Venice. I could tear the thing down. Did you ever go
to Italy, Mr. Philip?"
"No. I go with the girls to Germany every summer."
"My patience!" said Ellen bitterly. "The way the world is! The people
who can afford to go to Italy go to Germany. And I--I'll die if I don't
get away."
"Och, I often feel like this," said Mr. Philip. "I just take a week-end
off at a hydro."
"A hydro!" snorted Ellen. "It's something more like the French
Revolution I'm wanting. Something grand and coloured. Swords, and people
being rescued, and things like that."
"There's nothing going on like that now," he said stolidly, "and we
ought to be thankful for it."
