Dazed with the wonder of him, she went back into the room, and it was a
second or two before she noticed that Mr. Philip was ramming his hat on
his head and putting on his overcoat as though he had not a moment to
lose. "You've no need to fash yourself," she told him happily. "It's not
half-past seven yet. You've got a full hour. I can run down and heat up
your chop, if you'll wait."
"Oh, spare yourself!" he begged her shortly.
She moved about the room, putting away papers and shutting drawers and
winding up the eight-day clock on the mantelpiece a clear three days
before it needed it, with a mixed motive of clearing up before her
departure and making it clean and bare as befitted a place where heroes
came to do business; and she was more than unaware that Mr. Philip was
watching her like an ambushed assassin, she was confident in a
conception of the world which excluded any such happening. He was
standing by the mantelpiece fastening his furry storm-gloves, and though
he found it teasing to adjust the straps in the shadow, he would not
step into the light and look down on his hands. For his little eye was
set on Ellen, and it was dull with speculation as to whether she knew
what he had meant to do to her that moment when the knocking came at the
door. Because the thing that he had meant to do seemed foul when he
looked on her honourably held little head and her straight blue smock,
he began to tamper with reality, so that he might believe himself not to
have incurred the guilt of that intention. Surely it had been she that
had planned that thing, not he? Girls were nasty-minded and were always
thinking about men. He began to remember the evening all over again,
dusting with lasciviousness each of the gestures that had shone with
such clear colours in his sight, dulling each of the sentences by which
she had displayed to him her trimly-kept mental accoutrement until they
became simpering babble, falsifying his minute memory of the scene until
it became a record of her lust instead of his. Something deep in him
stated quietly and glumly that he was now doing a wrong far worse than
the thing that he had planned, and, though he would not listen, it was
making him so sensible that the essence of the evening was his
degradation that he felt very ill. If the palpitation of his heart and
the shortness of his breath continued he would have to sit down and then
she would be kind to him. He would never forgive her for all this
trouble she had brought on him.
When she could no longer hold it in she exclaimed artlessly, "Yon Mr.
Yaverland's a most interesting man."
He searched for an insult and felt resentful of the required effort, for
his heart was making him very uncomfortable. He wished some crude
gesture, some single ugly word, would do it. "You thought him an
interesting man?" he asked naggingly. "You don't surprise me. It was a
bit too plain you thought so. I'll thank you not to be so forward with a
client again. It'll give the office a bad name. And chatting at the door
like that!"
