Then they all had tea under the walnut-tree where the canary's cage was
hanging, and the ducks' eggs would be brought out, and Mr. Allington
would talk much Thames-side gossip: how the lock-keeper at Teddington
had had his back broken by a swan, mad as swans are in May; how they
would lose their license at the Dovetail Arms if they were not careful;
and how the man who kept the inn by Surly Hall was like to die, because
after he had been cursing his daughter for two days for having run away
with a soldier from Windsor Barracks, he had suddenly seen her white
face in a clump of rushes in the river just under the hole in the
garden fence. Margaret would sit quiet, round-eyed at the world's ways,
and shy because of Chris.
So they would sit on that bright lawn until the day was dyed with
evening blue, and Mr. Allington was more and more often obliged to leap
into the punt to chase his ducks, which had started on a trip to Bray
Lock, or to crawl into the undergrowth after rabbits similarly
demoralized by the dusk.
Then Chris would say he had to go, and they would stand in a communing
silence while the hearty voice of Mr. Allington shouted from midstream
or under the alder-boughs a disregarded invitation to stay and have a
bite of supper. In the liquefaction of colors which happens on a summer
evening, when the green grass seemed like a precious fluid poured out on
the earth and dripping over to the river, and the chestnut candles were
no longer proud flowers, but just wet, white lights in the humid mass
of the tree, when the brown earth seemed just a little denser than the
water, Margaret also participated.
Chris explained this part of his story stumblingly; but I, too, have
watched people I loved in the dusk, and I know what he meant. As she sat
in the punt while he ferried himself across it was no longer visible
that her fair hair curled differently and that its rather wandering
parting was a little on one side; that her straight brows, which were a
little darker than her hair, were nearly always contracted in a frown of
conscientious speculation; that her mouth and chin were noble, yet as
delicate as flowers; that her shoulders were slightly hunched because
her young body, like a lily-stem, found it difficult to manage its own
tallness. She was then just a girl in white who lifted a white face or
drooped a dull-gold head. Then she was nearer to him than at any other
time. That he loved her in this twilight, which obscured all the
physical details which he adored, seemed to him a guarantee that theirs
was a changeless love which would persist if she were old or maimed or
disfigured.
He stood beside the crazy post where the bell hung and watched the white
figure take the punt over the black waters, mount the gray steps, and
assume some of their grayness, become a green shade in the green
darkness of the foliage-darkened lawn, and he exulted in that guarantee.
