"Mr. Philip," she said.
Apparently he did not hear her, though the other man turned his dark
glance on her.
"Mr. Philip," she said. He looked across at her with a blankness she
took as part of the business. "I've been taking Commercial Spanish at
Skerry's. I took a first-class certificate. Maybe I could manage the
letters?"
"Oh!" exclaimed Yaverland explosively. He appeared to be about to make
some objection, and then he bit back the speech that was already in his
mouth. And as he tried to find other words the beauty of her body caught
his attention. It was, as it happened, very visible at that moment. The
fulness of her overall had fallen to one side as she sat on the high
stool, and so that linen was tightly wrapped about her, disclosing that
she was made like a delicate fleet beast; in the valley between her high
small breasts there lay a shadow, which grew greater when she breathed
deeply. He looked at her with the dispassionateness which comes to men
who have lived much in countries where nakedness offers itself unashamed
to the sunlight, and said to himself, "I should like to see her run." He
knew that a body like this must possess an infinite capacity for
physical pleasure, that to her mere walking would give more joy than
others find in dancing. And then he raised his eyes to her face and was
sad. For sufficient reasons he was very sensitive to the tragedies of
women, and he knew it was a tragedy that such a face should surmount
such a body. For her body would imprison her in soft places: she would
be allowed no adventures other than love, no achievements other than
births. But her face was haggard, in spite of its youth, with appetite
for travel in the hard places of the world, for the adventures and
achievements that are the birthright of any man. "It's rotten luck to be
a girl," he thought. "If she were a boy I could get her a job at Rio....
Lord, she has lovely hair!" He perceived sharply that he was not likely
to be of any more use to her than most men would. All he could do would
be to avert the humiliation which the moment seemed likely to bring down
on her.
"Oh, this is a wonderful country," he said aloud, "where you get people
studying Spanish in their off-hours." Ellen thought it rather wonderful
too, and looked at her toes with a priggish blankness. "You've got a
marvellous educational system...." He paused, conscious that he was too
manifestly talking at random. "In two continents you've enjoyed the
reputation of being able to talk the hind-leg off a donkey," he reminded
himself. "It's the language to learn," he said aloud. "It's the language
of the future. Ever been in Spain, Mr. James?"
"No," said Mr. Philip, "but I was thinking of going there--or mebbe
Italy--ma Easter holidays." Ellen smiled brilliantly at him, for she
knew that he had had no such thought till that evening's talk with her;
she had converted him to a romantic. He caught her eye, only to glare
coldly into the centre of her smile.
