_Mrs. Linde_. You are a mad creature.
_Nora_. Now, you know you're full of curiosity, Christine.
_Mrs. Linde_. Listen to me, Nora dear. Haven't you been a little bit
imprudent?
_Nora_ (_sits up straight_). Is it imprudent to save your husband's
life?
_Mrs. Linde_. It seems to me imprudent, without his knowledge, to--
_Nora_. But it was absolutely necessary that he should not know! My
goodness, can't you understand that? It was necessary he should have no
idea what a dangerous condition he was in. It was to me that the doctors
came and said that his life was in danger, and that the only thing to
save him was to live in the south. Do you suppose I didn't try, first of
all, to get what I wanted as if it were for myself? I told him how much
I should love to travel abroad like other young wives; I tried tears and
entreaties with him; I told him that he ought to remember the condition
I was in, and that he ought to be kind and indulgent to me; I even
hinted that he might raise a loan. That nearly made him angry,
Christine. He said I was thoughtless, and that it was his duty as my
husband not to indulge me in my whims and caprices--as I believe he
called them. Very well, I thought, you must be saved--and that was how I
came to devise a way out of the difficulty--
_Mrs. Linde_. And did your husband never get to know from your father
that the money had not come from him?
_Nora_. No, never. Papa died just at that time. I had meant to let him
into the secret and beg him never to reveal it. But he was so ill
then--alas, there never was any need to tell him.
_Mrs. Linde_. And since then have you never told your secret to your
husband?
_Nora_. Good Heavens, no! How could you think so? A man who has such
strong opinions about these things! And besides, how painful and
humiliating it would be for Torvald, with his manly independence, to
know that he owed me anything! It would upset our mutual relations
altogether; our beautiful happy home would no longer be what it is now.
_Mrs. Linde_. Do you mean never to tell him about it?
_Nora_ (_meditatively, and with a half smile._) Yes--some day, perhaps,
after many years, when I am no longer as nice-looking as I am now.
Don't laugh at me! I mean, of course, when Torvald is no longer as
devoted to me as he is now; when my dancing and dressing-up and reciting
have palled on him; then it may be a good thing to have something in
reserve--(_Breaking off,_) What nonsense! That time will never come.
Now, what do you think of my great secret, Christine? Do you still think
I am of no use? I can tell you, too, that this affair has caused me a
lot of worry. It has been by no means easy for me to meet my engagements
punctually. I may tell you that there is something that is called, in
business, quarterly interest, and another thing called payment in
instalments, and it is always so dreadfully difficult to manage them. I
have had to save a little here and there, where I could, you understand.
I have not been able to put aside much from my housekeeping money, for
Torvald must have a good table. I couldn't let my children be shabbily
dressed; I have felt obliged to use up all he gave me for them, the
sweet little darlings!
