Billing. Oh, bother the means--!
Horster. Well if you are thinking of that, Miss Stockmann, I shall be
delighted to provide you with a schoolroom. The great big old house my
father left me is standing almost empty; there is an immense
dining-room downstairs--
Petra (laughing). Thank you very much; but I am afraid nothing will
come of it.
Hovstad. No, Miss Petra is much more likely to take to journalism, I
expect. By the way, have you had time to do anything with that English
story you promised to translate for us?
Petra. No, not yet, but you shall have it in good time.
(DR. STOCKMANN comes in from his room with an open letter in his hand.)
Dr. Stockmann (waving the letter). Well, now the town will have
something new to talk about, I can tell you!
Billing. Something new?
Mrs. Stockmann. What is this?
Dr. Stockmann. A great discovery, Katherine.
Hovstad. Really?
Mrs. Stockmann. A discovery of yours?
Dr. Stockmann. A discovery of mine. (Walks up and down.) Just let them
come saying, as usual, that it is all fancy and a crazy man's
imagination! But they will be careful what they say this time, I can
tell you!
Petra. But, father, tell us what it is.
Dr. Stockmann. Yes, yes--only give me time, and you shall know all
about it. If only I had Peter here now! It just shows how we men can go
about forming our judgments, when in reality we are as blind as any
moles--
Hovstad. What are you driving at, Doctor?
Dr. Stockmann (standing still by the table). Isn't it the universal
opinion that our town is a healthy spot?
Hovstad. Certainly.
Dr. Stockmann. Quite an unusually healthy spot, in fact--a place that
deserves to be recommended in the warmest possible manner either for
invalids or for people who are well--
Mrs. Stockmann. Yes, but my dear Thomas--
Dr. Stockmann. And we have been recommending it and praising it--I have
written and written, both in the "Messenger" and in pamphlets...
Hovstad. Well, what then?
Dr. Stockmann. And the Baths--we have called them the "main artery of
the town's life-blood," the "nerve-centre of our town," and the devil
knows what else--
Billing. "The town's pulsating heart" was the expression I once used on
an important occasion.
Dr. Stockmann. Quite so. Well, do you know what they really are, these
great, splendid, much praised Baths, that have cost so much money--do
you know what they are?
Hovstad. No, what are they?
Mrs. Stockmann. Yes, what are they?
Dr. Stockmann. The whole place is a pest-house!
Petra. The Baths, father?
Mrs. Stockmann (at the same time), Our Baths?
Hovstad. But, Doctor--
Billing. Absolutely incredible!
Dr. Stockmann. The whole Bath establishment is a whited, poisoned
sepulchre, I tell you--the gravest possible danger to the public
health! All the nastiness up at Molledal, all that stinking filth, is
infecting the water in the conduit-pipes leading to the reservoir; and
the same cursed, filthy poison oozes out on the shore too--
