Dr. Stockmann. I was entitled to it as a matter of course!--I and
nobody else! I was the first person to see that the town could be made
into a flourishing watering-place, and I was the only one who saw it at
that time. I had to fight single-handed in support of the idea for many
years; and I wrote and wrote--
Peter Stockmann. Undoubtedly. But things were not ripe for the scheme
then--though, of course, you could not judge of that in your
out-of-the-way corner up north. But as soon as the opportune moment
came I--and the others--took the matter into our hands.
Dr. Stockmann. Yes, and made this mess of all my beautiful plan. It is
pretty obvious now what clever fellows you were!
Peter Stockmann. To my mind the whole thing only seems to mean that you
are seeking another outlet for your combativeness. You want to pick a
quarrel with your superiors--an old habit of yours. You cannot put up
with any authority over you. You look askance at anyone who occupies a
superior official position; you regard him as a personal enemy, and
then any stick is good enough to beat him with. But now I have called
your attention to the fact that the town's interests are at stake--and,
incidentally, my own too. And therefore, I must tell you, Thomas, that
you will find me inexorable with regard to what I am about to require
you to do.
Dr. Stockmann. And what is that?
Peter Stockmann. As you have been so indiscreet as to speak of this
delicate matter to outsiders, despite the fact that you ought to have
treated it as entirely official and confidential, it is obviously
impossible to hush it up now. All sorts of rumours will get about
directly, and everybody who has a grudge against us will take care to
embellish these rumours. So it will be necessary for you to refute them
publicly.
Dr. Stockmann. I! How? I don't understand.
Peter Stockmann. What we shall expect is that, after making further
investigations, you will come to the conclusion that the matter is not
by any means as dangerous or as critical as you imagined in the first
instance.
Dr. Stockmann. Oho!--so that is what you expect!
Peter Stockmann. And, what is more, we shall expect you to make public
profession of your confidence in the Committee and in their readiness
to consider fully and conscientiously what steps may be necessary to
remedy any possible defects.
Dr. Stockmann. But you will never be able to do that by patching and
tinkering at it--never! Take my word for it, Peter; I mean what I say,
as deliberately and emphatically as possible.
Peter Stockmann. As an officer under the Committee, you have no right
to any individual opinion.
Dr. Stockmann (amazed). No right?
Peter Stockmann. In your official capacity, no. As a private person, it
is quite another matter. But as a subordinate member of the staff of
the Baths, you have no right to express any opinion which runs contrary
to that of your superiors.
