Mrs. Stockmann. Oh, it is easy for you to talk; you are able to shift
for yourself, if need be. But remember the boys, Thomas; and think a
little of yourself too, and of me--
Dr. Stockmann. I think you are out of your senses, Katherine! If I were
to be such a miserable coward as to go on my knees to Peter and his
damned crew, do you suppose I should ever know an hour's peace of mind
all my life afterwards?
Mrs. Stockmann. I don't know anything about that; but God preserve us
from the peace of mind we shall have, all the same, if you go on
defying him! You will find yourself again without the means of
subsistence, with no income to count upon. I should think we had had
enough of that in the old days. Remember that, Thomas; think what that
means.
Dr. Stockmann (collecting himself with a struggle and clenching his
fists). And this is what this slavery can bring upon a free, honourable
man! Isn't it horrible, Katherine?
Mrs. Stockmann. Yes, it is sinful to treat you so, it is perfectly
true. But, good heavens, one has to put up with so much injustice in
this world. There are the boys, Thomas! Look at them! What is to become
of them? Oh, no, no, you can never have the heart--. (EJLIF and MORTEN
have come in, while she was speaking, with their school books in their
hands.)
Dr. Stockmann. The boys-- I (Recovers himself suddenly.) No, even if
the whole world goes to pieces, I will never bow my neck to this yokel
(Goes towards his room.)
Mrs. Stockmann (following him). Thomas--what are you going to do!
Dr. Stockmann (at his door). I mean to have the right to look my sons
in the face when they are grown men. (Goes into his room.)
Mrs. Stockmann (bursting into tears). God help us all!
Petra. Father is splendid! He will not give in.
(The boys look on in amazement; PETRA signs to them not to speak.)
ACT III
(SCENE.--The editorial office of the "People's Messenger." The entrance
door is on the left-hand side of the back wall; on the right-hand side
is another door with glass panels through which the printing room can
be seen. Another door in the right-hand wall. In the middle of the room
is a large table covered with papers, newspapers and books. In the
foreground on the left a window, before which stands a desk and a high
stool. There are a couple of easy chairs by the table, and other chairs
standing along the wall. The room is dingy and uncomfortable; the
furniture is old, the chairs stained and torn. In the printing room the
compositors are seen at work, and a printer is working a handpress.
HOVSTAD is sitting at the desk, writing. BILLING comes in from the
right with DR. STOCKMANN'S manuscript in his hand.)
Billing. Well, I must say!
Hovstad (still writing). Have you read it through?
