FURIA.  [Comes forward in the moonlight.]  I am your shadow.
CATILINE.  [Terrified.]  What,--the vestal's ghost!
FURIA.  Deep must your soul have sunk if you recoil
From me!
CATILINE.  Speak!  Have you risen from the grave
With hatred and with vengeance to pursue me?
FURIA.  Pursue you,--did you say?  I am your shadow.
I must be with you wheresoe'er you go.
[She comes nearer.]
CATILINE.  She lives!  O gods,--then it is she,--no other,
No disembodied ghost.
FURIA.  Or ghost or not,--
It matters little; I must follow you.
CATILINE.  With mortal hate!
FURIA.  Hate ceases in the grave,
As love and all the passions do that flourish
Within an earthly soul.  One thing alone
In life and death remains unchangeable.
CATILINE.  And what?  Say forth!
FURIA.  Your fate, my Catiline!
CATILINE.  Only the gods of wisdom know my fate,--
No human being.
FURIA.  Yet I know your fate.
I am your shadow;--strange, mysterious ties
Bind us together.
CATILINE.  Bonds of hatred.
FURIA.  No!
Rose ever spirit from the dankest grave
For hate and vengeance?  Listen, Catiline!
The rivers of the underworld have quenched
Each earthly flame that raged within my breast.
As you behold me here, I am no longer
The stormy Furia,--wild and passionate,--
Whom once you loved--
CATILINE.  You do not hate me then?
FURIA.  Ah, now no more.  When in the tomb I stood,--
And faltered on the path that separates
This life from death, at any moment ready
To greet the underworld,--lo, seized me then
An eerie shuddering; I know not what--;
I felt in me a mystic transformation;--
Away flowed hate, revenge, my very soul;
Each memory vanished and each earthly longing;--
Only the name of "Catiline" remains
Written in fiery letters on my heart.
CATILINE.  Ah, wonderful!  No matter who you are,--
A human form, a shadow from the dead,--
There lies withal a dreadful fascination
In your dark eyes, in every word you speak.
FURIA.  Your mind is strong as mine; yet you give up,
Disheartened and irresolute, each hope
Of triumph and dominion.  You forsake
The battlefield, where all your inmost plans
Could grow and blossom forth into achievement.
CATILINE.  I must!  Inexorable fate decrees it!
FURIA.  Your fate?  Why were you given a hero's strength,--
If not to struggle with what you call fate?
CATILINE.  Oh, I have fought enough!  Was not my life
A constant battle?  What are my rewards?
Disgrace and scorn--!
FURIA.  Ah, you are fallen low!
You struggle towards a high and daring goal,
Are eager to attain it; yet you fear
Each trifling hindrance.
CATILINE.  Fear is not the reason.
The goal I sought is unattainable;--
The whole was but a fleeting dream of youth.
FURIA.  Now you deceive yourself, my Catiline!
You hover still about that single project;--
Your soul is noble,--worthy of a ruler,--
And you have friends--.  Ah, wherefore hesitate?
CATILINE.  [Meditating.]
I shall--?  What do you mean--?  With civil blood--?
FURIA.  Are you a man,--yet lack a woman's courage?
Have you forgot that nimble dame of Rome,
Who sought the throne straight over a father's corpse?
I feel myself a Tullia now; but you--?
Scorn and despise yourself, O Catiline!
