After a long and tense period of waiting there began to appear in
the meantime a few difficulties.  My friend had the piece
returned from the management with a particularly polite but
equally peremptory rejection.  He now took the manuscript from
bookseller to bookseller; but all to a man expressed themselves
to the same effect as the theatrical management.  The highest
bidder demanded so and so much to publish the piece without any
fee.
All this, however, was far from lessening my friend's belief in
victory.  He wrote to the contrary that it was best even so; I
should come forward myself as the publisher of my drama; the
necessary funds he would advance me; the profits we should divide
in consideration of his undertaking the business end of the deal,
except the proof-reading, which he regarded as superfluous in
view of the handsome and legible manuscript the printers had to
follow.  In a later letter he declared that, considering these
promising prospects for the future, he contemplated abandoning
his studies in order to consecrate himself completely to the
publishing of my works; two or three plays a year, he thought, I
should with ease be able to write, and according to a calculation
of probabilities he had made he had discovered that with our
surplus we should at no distant time be able to undertake the
journey so often agreed upon or discussed, through Europe and the
Orient.
My journey was for the time being limited to Christiania.  I
arrived there in the beginning of the spring of 1850 and just
previous to my arrival _Catiline_ had appeared in the
bookstalls.  The drama created a stir and awakened considerable
interest among the students, but the critics dwelt largely on the
faulty verses and thought the book in other respects immature.  A
more appreciative judgment was uttered from but one single
quarter, but this expression came from a man whose appreciation
has always been dear to me and weighty and whom I herewith offer
my renewed gratitude.  Not very many copies of the limited
edition were sold; my friend had a good share of them in his
custody, and I remember that one evening when our domestic
arrangements heaped up for us insurmountable difficulties, this
pile of printed matter was fortunately disposed of as waste paper
to a huckster.  During the days immediately following we lacked
none of the prime necessities of life.
During my sojourn at home last summer and particularly since my
return here there loomed up before me more clearly and more
sharply than ever before the kaleidoscopic scenes of my literary
life.  Among other things I also brought out _Catiline_.
The contents of the book as regards details I had almost
forgotten; but by reading it through anew I found that it
nevertheless contained a great deal which I could still
acknowledge, particularly if it be remembered that it is my first
undertaking.  Much, around which my later writings center, the
contradiction between ability and desire, between will and
possibility, the intermingled tragedy and comedy in humanity and
in the individual,--appeared already here in vague
foreshadowings, and I conceived therefore the plan of preparing a
new edition, a kind of jubilee-edition,--a plan to which my
publisher with his usual readiness gave his approval.
