CURIUS.  What,--here, you say?  Impossible!  A jest!
CATILINE.  A jest?  Why, yes,--as all my loving is.
And yet I was in earnest when I spoke.
During the recent games I chanced to see
The priestesses in long and pompous train.
By accident I cast my roving eye
On one of them,--and with a hasty glance
She met my gaze.  It pierced me to the soul.
Ah, the expression in those midnight eyes
I never saw before in any woman.
CURIUS.  Yes, yes, I know.  But speak--what followed
then?
CATILINE.  A way into the temple I have found,
And more than once I've seen and spoken to her.
Oh, what a difference between this woman
And my Aurelia!
CURIUS.  And you love them both
At once?  No,--that I cannot understand.
CATILINE.  Yes, strange, indeed; I scarcely understand myself.
And yet--I love them both, as you have said.
But oh, how vastly different is this love!
The one is kind: Aurelia often lulls
With soothing words my soul to peace and rest;--
But Furia--.  Come, away; some one approaches.
[They hide themselves among the pillars.]
FURIA.  [Enters from the opposite side.]
Oh, hated walls,--witnesses of my anguish.
Home of the torment I must suffer still!
My hopes and cherished aspirations languish
Within my bosom,--now with feverish chill
Pervaded, now with all the heat of passion,
More hot and burning than yon vestal fire.
FURIA.  Ah, what a fate!  And what was my transgression
That chained me to this temple-prison dire,--
That robbed my life of every youthful pleasure,--
In life's warm spring each innocent delight?
FURIA.  Yet tears I shall not shed in undue measure;
Hatred and vengeance shall my heart excite.
CATILINE.  [Comes forward.]
Not even for me, my Furia, do you cherish
Another feeling,--one more mild than this?
FURIA.  Ye gods! you, reckless man,--you here again?
Do you not fear to come--?
CATILINE.  I know no fear.
'Twas always my delight to mock at danger.
FURIA.  Oh, splendid!  Such is also my delight;--
This peaceful temple here I hate the more,
Because I live in everlasting calm,
And danger never lurks within its walls.
FURIA.  Oh, this monotonous, inactive life,
A life faint as the flicker of the lamp--!
How cramped a field it is for all my sum
Of fervid longings and far-reaching plans!
Oh, to be crushed between these narrow walls;--
Life here grows stagnant; every hope is quenched;
The day creeps slowly on in drowsiness,--
And not one single thought is turned to deeds.
CATILINE.  O Furia, strange, in truth, is your complaint!
It seems an echo out of my own soul,--
As if with flaming script you sought to paint
My every longing towards a worthy goal.
Rancour and hate in my soul likewise flourish;
My heart--as yours--hate tempers into steel;
I too was robbed of hopes I used to nourish;
An aim in life I now no longer feel.
CATILINE.  In silence still I mask my grief, my want;
And none can guess what smoulders in my breast.
They scoff and sneer at me,--these paltry things;
They can not grasp how high my bosom beats
For right and freedom, all the noble thoughts
That ever stirred within a Roman mind.
