Manders. Miserable woman.
Mrs. Alving. --and I would have told him all I have told you, from
beginning to end.
Manders. I am almost shocked at you, Mrs. Alving.
Mrs. Alving. I know. I know quite well! I am shocked at myself when I
think of it. (Comes away from the window.) I am coward enough for that.
Manders. Can you call it cowardice that you simply did your duty? Have
you forgotten that a child should love and honour his father and mother?
Mrs. Alving. Don't let us talk in such general terms. Suppose we say:
"Ought Oswald to love and honour Mr. Alving?"
Manders. You are a mother--isn't there a voice in your heart that
forbids you to shatter your son's ideals?
Mrs. Alving. And what about the truth?
Manders. What about his ideals?
Mrs. Alving. Oh--ideals, ideals! If only I were not such a coward as I
am!
Manders. Do not spurn ideals, Mrs. Alving--they have a way of avenging
themselves cruelly. Take Oswald's own case, now. He hasn't many ideals,
more's the pity. But this much I have seen, that his father is
something of an ideal to him.
Mrs. Alving. You are right there.
Manders. And his conception of his father is what you inspired and
encouraged by your letters.
Mrs. Alving. Yes, I was swayed by duty and consideration for others;
that was why I lied to my son, year in and year out. Oh, what a
coward--what a coward I have been!
Manders. You have built up a happy illusion in your son's mind, Mrs.
Alving--and that is a thing you certainly ought not to undervalue.
Mrs. Alving. Ah, who knows if that is such a desirable thing after
all!--But anyway I don't intend to put up with any goings on with
Regina. I am not going to let him get the poor girl into trouble.
Manders. Good heavens, no--that would be a frightful thing!
Mrs. Alving. If only I knew whether he meant it seriously, and whether
it would mean happiness for him.
Manders. In what way? I don't understand.
Mrs. Alving. But that is impossible; Regina is not equal to it,
unfortunately.
Manders, I don't understand: What do you mean?
Mrs. Alving. If I were not such a miserable coward, I would say to him:
"Marry her, or make any arrangement you like with her--only let there
be no deceit in the matter."
Manders. Heaven forgive you! Are you actually suggesting anything so
abominable, so unheard of, as a marriage between them!
Mrs. Alving. Unheard of, do you call it? Tell me honestly, Mr. Manders,
don't you suppose there are plenty of married couples out here in the
country that are just as nearly related as they are?
Manders. I am sure I don't understand you.
Mrs. Alving. Indeed you do.
Manders. I suppose you are thinking of cases where possibly--. It is
only too true, unfortunately, that family life is not always as
stainless as it should be. But as for the sort of thing you hint
at--well, it's impossible to tell, at all events, with any certainty.
Here on the other hand--for you, a mother, to be willing to allow your--
