  JENS BIELKE.  That you may safely boast.  God and all men know
you for the craftiest devil in all the three kingdoms.
  NILS LYKKE.  You flatter!  But after all, 'tis not much to say.
Now this present errand I hold for the crowning proof of my policy;
for here I have to outwit a woman----
  JENS BIELKE.  Ha-ha-ha!  In that art you have long since given
  crowning proofs of your skill, dear brother.  Think you we
  in Sweden know not the song--
    _Fair maidens a-many they sigh and they pine;
     "Ah God, that Nils Lykke were mine, mine, mine!_"
  NILS LYKKE.  Alas, it is women of twenty and thereabouts that
ditty speaks of.  Lady Inger Gyldenlove is nigh on fifty, and wily
to boot beyond all women.  It will be no light matter to overcome
her.  But it must be done--at any cost.  If I succeed in winning
certain advantages over her that the King has long desired, I can
reckon on the embassy to France next spring.  You know that I spent
three years at the University in Paris?  My whole soul is bent on
coming thither again, most of all if I can appear in lofty place,
a king's ambassador.--Well, then--is it agreed?--do you leave Lady
Inger to me?  Remember--when you were last at Court in Copenhagen,
I made way for you with more than one fair lady----
  JENS BIELKE.  Nay, truly now--that generosity cost you little;
one and all of them were at your beck and call.  But let that pass;
now that I have begun amiss in this matter, I had as lief that you
should take it on your shoulders.  One thing, though, you must
promise--if the young Count Sture be in Ostrat, you will deliver
him into my hands, dead or alive!
  NILS LYKKE.  You shall have him all alive.  I, at any rate, mean
not to kill him.  But now you must ride back and join your people.
Keep guard on the road.  Should I mark aught that mislikes me, you
shall know it forthwith.
  JENS BIELKE.  Good, good.  But how am I to get out?
  NILS LYKKE.  The fellow that brought us in will show the way.
But go quietly.
  JENS BIELKE.  Of course, of course.  Well--good fortune to you!
  NILS LYKKE.  Fortune has never failed me in a war with women.
Haste you now!
    (JENS BIELKE goes out to the right.)
  NILS LYKKE (stands still for a while; then walks about the room,
looking round him; at last he says softly).  So I am at Ostrat at
last--the ancient seat that a child, two years ago, told me so
much of.
  Lucia.  Ay, two years ago she was still a child.  And now--now
she is dead.  (Hums with a half-smile.)  "Blossoms plucked are
blossoms withered---- ----"  (Looks round him again.)
  Ostrat.  'Tis as though I had seen it all before; as though I
were at home here.--In there is the Banquet Hall.  And underneath
is--the grave-vault.  It must be there that Lucia lies.
    (In a lower voice, half seriously, half with forced gaiety.)
  Were I timorous, I might well find myself fancying that when I
set foot within Ostrat gate she turned about in her coffin; as I
walked across the courtyard she lifted the lid; and when I named
her name but now, 'twas as though a voice summoned her forth from
the grave-vault.--Maybe she is even now groping her way up the
stairs.  The face-cloth blinds her, but she gropes on and on in
spite of it.
  Now she has reached the Banquet Hall; she stands watching me from
behind the door!
    (Turns his head backwards over one shoulder, nods, and says
      aloud:)
  Come nearer, Lucia!  Talk to me a little!  Your mother keeps me
waiting.  'Tis tedious waiting--and you have helped me to while
away many a tedious hour---- ----
    (Passes his hand over his forehead, and takes one or two turns
      up and down.)
  Ah, there!--Right, right; there is the the deep curtained window.
It is there that Inger Gyldenlove is wont to stand gazing out over
the road, as though looking for one that never comes.  In there--
(looks towards the door on the left)--somewhere in there is Sister
Elina's chamber.  Elina?  Ay, Elina is her name.  Can it be that
she is so rare a being--so wise and so brave as Lucia drew her?
Fair, too, they say.  But for a wedded wife----?  I should not
have written so plainly---- ----
    (Lost in thought, he is on the point of sitting down by the
      table, but stands up again.)
  How will Lady Inger receive me?  She will scarce burn the castle
over our heads, or slip me through a trap-door.  A stab from behind----?
No, not that way either----
    (Listens towards the hall.)
  Aha!
