  ELINA.  What is it?
  NILS LYKKE.  Farewell.
  ELINA (comes a step nearer him).  Farewell?  You are leaving
Ostrat--so soon?
  NILS LYKKE.  This very night.
  ELINA (seems to hesitate for a moment; then says coldly:)  Then
take my greeting, Sir Knight!  (Bows and is about to go.)
  NILS LYKKE.  Elina Gyldenlove,--I have no right to keep you here;
but 'twill be unlike your nobleness if you refuse to hear what I
have to say to you.
  ELINA.  I hear you, Sir Knight.
  NILS LYKKE.  I know you hate me.
  ELINA.  You are keen-sighted, I perceive.
  NILS LYKKE.  But I know, too, that I have fully merited your
hate.  Unseemly and insolent were the words I wrote of you
in my letter to Lady Inger.
  ELINA.  It may be; I have not read them.
  NILS LYKKE.  But at least their purport is not unknown to you;
I know your mother has not left you in ignorance of the matter;
at the least she has told you how I praised the lot of the man
who----; surely you know the hope I nursed----
  ELINA.  Sir Knight--if it is of that you would speak----
  NILS LYKKE.  I speak of it only to excuse what I have done; for
no other reason, I swear to you.  If my fame has reached you--as
I have too much cause of fear--before I myself set foot in Ostrat,
you must needs know enough of my life not to wonder that in such
things I should go to work something boldly.  I have met many
women, Elina Gyldenlove; but not one have I found unyielding.  Such
lessons, look you, teach a man to be secure.  He loses the habit
of roundabout ways----
  ELINA.  May be so.  I know not of what metal those women can
have been.
  For the rest, you err in thinking 'twas your letter to my mother
that aroused my soul's hatred and bitterness against you.  It is
of older date.
  NILS LYKKE (uneasily).  Of older date?  What mean you?
  ELINA.  'Tis as you guessed:--your fame has gone before you to
Ostrat, even as over all the land.  Nils Lykke's name is never
spoken save with the name of some woman whom he has beguiled and
cast off.  Some speak it in wrath, others with laughter and wanton
jeering at those weak-souled creatures.  But through the wrath
and the laughter and the jeers rings the song they have made of
you, masterful and insolent as an enemy's song of triumph.
  'Tis all this that has begotten my hate for you.  Your were ever
in my thoughts, and I longed to meet you face to face, that you
might learn that there are women on whom your soft speeches are
lost--if you should think to use them.
  NILS LYKKE.  You judge me unjustly, if you judge from what rumour
has told of me.  Even if there be truth in all you have heard,--
you know not the causes that have made me what I am.--As a boy of
seventeen I began my course of pleasure.  I have lived full fifteen
years since then.  Light women granted me all that I would--even
before the wish had shaped itself into a prayer; and what I offered
them they seized with eager hands.  You are the first woman that
has flung back a gift of mine with scorn at my feet.
  Think not I reproach you.  Rather I honour you for it, as never
before have I honoured woman.  But for this I reproach my fate--
and the thought is a gnawing pain to me--that I did not meet you
sooner---- ----
  Elina Gyldenlove!  Your mother has told me of you.  While far
from Ostrat life ran its restless course, you went your lonely way
in silence, living in your dreams and histories.  Therefore you
will understand what I have to tell you.--Know, then, that once I
too lived even such a life as yours.  Methought that when I stepped
forth into the great world, a noble and stately woman would come
to meet me, and would beckon me to her and point me the path towards
a lofty goal.--I was deceived, Elina Gyldenlove!  Women came to
meet me; but _she_ was not among them.  Ere yet I had come to full
manhood, I had learnt to despise them all.
  Was it my fault?  Why were not the others even as you?--I know
the fate of your fatherland lies heavy on your soul, and you know
the part I have in these affairs---- ----  'Tis said of me that I
am false as the sea-foam.  Mayhap I am; but if I be, it is women
who have made me so.  Had I sooner found what I sought,--had I met
a woman proud and noble and high-souled even as you, then had my
path been different indeed.  At this moment, maybe, I had been
standing at your side as the champion of all that suffer wrong
in Norway's land.  For _this_ I believe: a woman is the mightiest
power in the world, and in her hand it lies to guide a man whither
God Almighty would have him go.
