  NILS LYKKE (throws down the goblet).  Ah, I am poisoned!
  OLAF SKAKTAVL (at the same time, clutches his sword).  Death and
hell, have you murdered me?
  LADY INGER (to OLAF SKAKTAVL, pointing to NILS LYKKE.)  You see
the Danes' trust in Inger Gyldenlove----
    (To NILS LYKKE, pointing to OLAF SKAKTAVL.)
  ----and likewise my countrymen's faith in me!
    (To both of them.)
  And I am to place myself in your power?  Gently, noble Sirs--
gently!  The Lady of Ostrat is not yet in her dotage.
    (ELINA GYLDENLOVE enters by the door on the left.)
  ELINA.  I heard voices!  What is amiss?
  LADY INGER (to NILS LYKKE).  My daughter Elina.
  NILS LYKKE (softly).  Elina!  I had not pictured her thus.
    (ELINA catches sight of NILS LYKKE, and stands still, as in
      surprise, gazing at him.)
  LADY INGER (touches her arm).  My child--this knight is----
  ELINA (motions her mother back with her hand, still looking
intently at him, and says:)  There is no need!  I see who he
is.  He is Nils Lykke.
  NILS LYKKE (aside, to LADY INGER).  How?  Does she know me?
Can Lucia have----?  Can she know----?
  LADY INGER.  Hush!  She knows nothing.
  ELINA (to herself).  I knew it;--even so must Nils Lykke appear.
  NILS LYKKE (approaches her).  Yes, Elina Gyldenlove,--you have
guessed rightly.  And as it seems that, in some sense, you know
me,--and moreover, as I am your mother's guest,--you will not deny
me the flower-spray you wear in your bosom.  So long as it is fresh
and fragrant I shall have in it an image of yourself.
  ELINA (proudly, but still gazing at him).  Pardon me, Sir Knight--
it was plucked in my own chamber, and _there_ can grow no flower
for you.
  NILS LYKKE (loosening a spray of flowers that he wears in the
front of his doublet).  At least you will not disdain this humble
gift.  'Twas a farewell token from a courtly lady when I set forth
from Trondhiem this morning.--But mark me, noble maiden,--were I
to offer you a gift that were fully worthy of you, it could be
naught less than a princely crown.
  ELINA (who has taken the flowers passively).  And were it the
royal crown of Denmark you held forth to me--before I shared it
with _you_, I would crush it to pieces between my hands, and cast
the fragments at your feet!
    (Throws down the flowers at his feet, and goes into the
      Banquet Hall.)
  OLAF SKAKTAVL (mutters to himself).  Bold--as Inger Ottisdaughter
by Knut Alfson's bier!
  LADY INGER (softly, after looking alternately at ELINA and NILS
LYKKE).  The wolf _can_ be tamed.  Now to forge the fetters.
  NILS LYKKE (picks up the flowers and gazes in rapture after ELINA).
God's holy blood, but she is proud and fair
ACT THIRD.
(The Banquet Hall.  A high bow-window in the background; a smaller
  window in front on the left.  Several doors on each side.  The
  roof is supported by massive wooden pillars, on which, as well as
  on the walls, are hung all sorts of weapons.  Pictures of saints,
  knights, and ladies hang in long rows.  Pendent from the roof a
  large many-branched lamp, alight.  In front, on the right, an
  ancient carven high-seat.  In the middle of the hall, a table
  with the remnants of the evening meal.)
