    (LADY INGER GYLDENLOVE enters from the hall.)
  LADY INGER (coldly).  My greeting to you, Sir Councillor----
  NILS LYKKE (bows deeply).  Ah--the Lady of Ostrat!
  LADY INGER.  And thanks that you have forewarned me of your visit.
  NILS LYKKE.  I could do no less.  I had reason to think that my
coming might surprise you----
  LADY INGER.  In truth, Sir Councillor, you thought right there.
Nils Lykke was certainly the last guest I looked to see at Ostrat.
  NILS LYKKE.  And still less, mayhap, did you think to see him
come as a friend?
  LADY INGER.  As a friend?  You add insult to all the shame and
sorrow you have heaped upon my house?  After bringing my child to
the grave, you still dare----
  NILS LYKKE.  With your leave, Lady Inger Gyldenlove--on that
matter we should scarce agree; for you count as nothing what _I_
lost by that same unhappy chance.  I purposed nought but in honour.
I was tired of my unbridled life; my thirtieth year was already
past; I longed to mate me with a good and gentle wife.  Add to
all this the hope of becoming _your_ son-in-law----
  LADY INGER.  Beware, Sir Councillor!  I have done all in my power
to hide my child's unhappy fate.  But because it is out of sight,
think not it is out of mind.  It may yet happen----
  NILS LYKKE.  You threaten me, Lady Inger?  I have offered you
my hand in amity; you refuse to take it.  Henceforth, then, it
is to be open war between us?
  LADY INGER.  Was there ever aught else?
  NILS LYKKE.  Not on _your_ side, mayhap.  _I_ have never been
your enemy,--though as a subject of the King of Denmark I lacked
not good cause.
  LADY INGER.  I understand you.  I have not been pliant enough.
It has not proved so easy as some of you hoped to lure me over
into your camp.--  Yet methinks you have nought to complain of.
My daughter Merete's husband is your countryman--further I cannot
go.  My position is no easy one, Nils Lykke!
  NILS LYKKE.  That I can well believe.  Both nobles and people
here in Norway think they have an ancient claim on you--a claim,
'tis said, you have but half fulfilled.
  LADY INGER.  Your pardon, Sir Councillor,--I account for my
doings to none but God and myself.  If it please you, then, let
me understand what brings you hither.
  NILS LYKKE.  Gladly, Lady Inger!  The purport of my mission to
this country can scarce be unknown to you----?
  LADY INGER.  I know the mission that report assigns you.  Our
King would fain know how the Norwegian nobles stand affected
towards him.
  NILS LYKKE.  Assuredly.
  LADY INGER.  Then that is why you visit Ostrat?
  NILS LYKKE.  In part.  But it is far from my purpose to demand
any profession of loyalty from you----
  LADY INGER.  What then?
  NILS LYKKE.  Hearken to me, Lady Inger!  You said yourself but
now that your position is no easy one.  You stand half way between
two hostile camps, neither of which dares trust you fully.  Your
own interest must needs bind you to _us_.  On the other hand, you
are bound to the disaffected by the bond of nationality, and--who
knows?--mayhap by some secret tie as well.
