  ELINA.  It is you I ask; it is you that must answer for her young
life.  She was glad as a bird in spring when she sailed from Ostrat
to be Merete's guest.  A year passed, and she stood in this room
once more; but her cheeks were white, and death had gnawed deep into
her breast.  Ah, you wonder at me, my mother!  You thought that the
ugly secret was buried with her;--but she told me all.  A courtly
knight had won her heart.  He would have wedded her.  You knew that
her honour was at stake; yet your will never bent--and your child
had to die.  You see, I know all!
  LADY INGER.  All?  Then she told you his name?
  ELINA.  His name?  No; his name she did not tell me.  His name
was a torturing horror to her;--she never uttered it.
  LADY INGER (relieved, to herself).  Ah, then you do _not_ know
all---- ----
  Elina--it is true that the whole of this matter was well known
to me.  But there is one thing about it you seem not to have noted.
The lord whom Lucia met in Bergen was a Dane----
  ELINA.  That too I know.
  LADY INGER.  And his love was a lie.  With guile and soft speeches
he had ensnared her.
  ELINA.  I know it; but nevertheless she loved him; and had you
had a mother's heart, your daughter's honour had been more to you
than all.
  LADY INGER.  Not more than her happiness.  Do you think that,
with Merete's lot before my eyes, I could sacrifice my second
child to a man that loved her not?
  ELINA.  Cunning words may befool many, but they befool not me----
  Think not I know nothing of all that is passing in our land.
I understand your counsels but too well.  I know well that our
Danish lords have no true friend in you.  It may be that you hate
them; but your fear them too.  When you gave Merete to Vinzents
Lunge the Danes held the mastery on all sides throughout our land.
Three years later, when you forbade Lucia to wed the man she had
given her life to, though he had deceived her,--things were far
different then.  The King's Danish governors had shamefully misused
the common people, and you thought it not wise to link yourself
still more closely to the foreign tyrants.
  And what have you done to avenge her that had to die so young?
You have done nothing.  Well then, I will act in your stead; I
will avenge all the shame they have brought upon our people and
our house.
  LADY INGER.  You?  What will you do?
  ELINA.  I shall go _my_ way, even as you go yours.  What I shall
do I myself know not; but I feel within me the strength to dare
all for our righteous cause.
  LADY INGER.  Then you have a hard fight before you.  I once
promised as you do now--and my hair has grown grey under the burden
of that promise.
