LIND [collecting himself].
I?  What should make you think so?
FALK.
                                  I observe.
Your eyes are glued to the verandah yonder--
You're studying, mayhap, its arches' curve,
Or can it be its pillars' strength you ponder,
The door perhaps, with hammered iron hinges?
From something there your glances never wander.
LIND.
No, you are wrong--I'm just absorbed in being--
Drunk with the hour--naught craving, naught foreseeing.
I feel as though I stood, my life complete,
With all earth's riches scattered at my feet.
Thanks for your song of happiness and spring--
From out my inmost heart it seemed to spring.
   [Lifts his glass and exchanges a glance, unobserved,
     with ANNA.
Here's to the blossom in its fragrant pride!
What reck we of the fruit of autumn-tide?
                         [Empties his glass.
FALK [looks at him with surprise and emotion,
    but assumes a light tone].
Behold, fair ladies! though you scorn me quite,
Here I have made an easy proselyte.
His hymn-book yesterday was all he cared for--
To-day e'en dithyrambics he's prepared for!
We poets must be born, cries every judge;
But prose-folks, now and then, like Strasburg geese,
Gorge themselves so inhumanly obese
On rhyming balderdash and rhythmic fudge,
That, when cleaned out, their very souls are thick
With lyric lard and greasy rhetoric.
                                 [To LIND.
Your praise, however, I shall not forget;
We'll sweep the lyre henceforward in duet.
MISS JAY.
You, Mr. Falk, are hard at work, no doubt,
Here in these rural solitudes delightful,
Where at your own sweet will you roam about--
MRS. HALM [smiling].
Oh, no, his laziness is something frightful.
MISS JAY.
What! here at Mrs. Halm's! that's most surprising--
Surely it's just the place for poetising--
                             [Pointing to the right.
That summer-house, for instance, in the wood
Sequestered, name me any place that could
Be more conducive to poetic mood--
FALK.
Let blindness veil the sunlight from mine eyes,
I'll chant the splendour of the sunlit skies!
Just for a season let me beg or borrow
A great, a crushing, a stupendous sorrow,
And soon you'll hear my hymns of gladness rise!
But best, Miss Jay, to nerve my wings for flight,
Find me a maid to be my life, my light--
For that incitement long to heaven I've pleaded;
But hitherto, worse luck, it hasn't heeded.
MISS JAY.
What levity!
MRS. HALM.
            Yes, most irreverent!
FALK.
Pray don't imagine it was my intent
To live with her on bread and cheese and kisses.
No! just upon the threshold of our blisses,
Kind Heaven must snatch away the gift it lent.
I need a little spiritual gymnastic;
The dose in that form surely would be drastic.
SVANHILD.
[Has during the talk approached; she stands close to
  the table, and says in a determined but whimsical tone:
I'll pray that such may be your destiny.
But, when it finds you--bear it like a man.
FALK [turning round in surprise].
Miss Svanhild!--well, I'll do the best I can.
But think you I may trust implicitly
To finding your petitions efficacious?
Heaven as you know, to faith alone is gracious--
And though you've doubtless will enough for two
To make me bid my peace of mind adieu,
Have you the faith to carry matters through?
That is the question.
