Mrs. Bernick: No one at all, Karsten?
Bernick: No--who is there? And to have them on my shoulders just at
this moment! Without a doubt they will create a scandal in some way or
another--she, in particular. It is simply a calamity to be connected
with such folk in any way!
Mrs. Bernick: Well, I can't help their--
Bernick: What can't you help? Their being your relations? No, that is
quite true.
Mrs. Bernick: And I did not ask them to come home.
Bernick: That's it--go on! "I did not ask them to come home; I did not
write to them; I did not drag them home by the hair of their heads!"
Oh, I know the whole rigmarole by heart.
Mrs. Bernick (bursting into tears): You need not be so unkind--
Bernick: Yes, that's right--begin to cry, so that our neighbours may
have that to gossip about too. Do stop being so foolish, Betty. Go and
sit outside; some one may come in here. I don't suppose you want people
to see the lady of the house with red eyes? It would be a nice thing,
wouldn't it, if the story got out about that--. There, I hear some one
in the passage. (A knock is heard at the door.) Come in! (MRS. BERNICK
takes her sewing and goes out down the garden steps. AUNE comes in from
the right.)
Aune: Good morning, Mr. Bernick.
Bernick: Good morning. Well, I suppose you can guess what I want you
for?
Aune: Mr. Krap told me yesterday that you were not pleased with--
Bernick: I am displeased with the whole management of the yard, Aune.
The work does not get on as quickly as it ought. The "Palm Tree" ought
to have been under sail long ago. Mr. Vigeland comes here every day to
complain about it; he is a difficult man to have with one as part owner.
Aune: The "Palm Tree" can go to sea the day after tomorrow.
Bernick: At last. But what about the American ship, the "Indian Girl,"
which has been laid up here for five weeks and--
Aune: The American ship? I understood that, before everything else, we
were to work our hardest to get your own ship ready.
Bernick: I gave you no reason to think so. You ought to have pushed on
as fast as possible with the work on the American ship also; but you
have not.
Aune: Her bottom is completely rotten, Mr. Bernick; the more we patch
it, the worse it gets.
Bernick: That is not the reason. Krap has told me the whole truth. You
do not understand how to work the new machines I have provided--or
rather, you will not try to work them.
Aune: Mr. Bernick, I am well on in the fifties; and ever since I was a
boy I have been accustomed to the old way of working--
Bernick:  We cannot work that way now-a-days. You must not imagine,
Aune, that it is for the sake of making profit; I do not need that,
fortunately; but I owe consideration to the community I live in, and to
the business I am at the head of. I must take the lead in progress, or
there would never be any.
