Dina:  You know quite well in what sense I mean it. Hilda and Netta
come here every day, to be exhibited to me as good examples. I can
never be so beautifully behaved as they; I don't want to be. If only I
were right away from it all, I should grow to be worth something.
Rorlund:  But you are worth a great deal, Dina dear.
Dina:  What good does that do me here?
Rorlund:  Get right away, you say? Do you mean it seriously?
Dina:  I would not stay here a day longer, if it were not for you.
Rorlund: Tell me, Dina--why is it that you are fond of being with me?
Dina:  Because you teach me so much that is beautiful.
Rorlund:  Beautiful? Do you call the little I can teach you, beautiful?
Dina: Yes. Or perhaps, to be accurate, it is not that you teach me
anything; but when I listen to you talking I see beautiful visions.
Rorlund: What do you mean exactly when you call a thing beautiful?
Dina: I have never thought it out.
Rorlund: Think it out now, then. What do you understand by a beautiful
thing?
Dina: A beautiful thing is something that is great--and far off.
Rorlund: Hm!--Dina, I am so deeply concerned about you, my dear.
Dina: Only that?
Rorlund: You know perfectly well that you are dearer to me than I can
say.
Dina: If I were Hilda or Netta, you would not be afraid to let people
see it.
Rorlund: Ah, Dina, you can have no idea of the number of things I am
forced to take into consideration. When it is a man's lot to be a moral
pillar of the community he lives in, he cannot be too circumspect. If
only I could be certain that people would interpret my motives
properly. But no matter for that; you must, and shall be, helped to
raise yourself. Dina, is it a bargain between us that when I come--when
circumstances allow me to come--to you and say: "Here is my hand," you
will take it and be my wife? Will you promise me that, Dina?
Dina: Yes.
Rorlund: Thank you, thank you! Because for my part, too--oh, Dina, I
love you so dearly. Hush! Some one is coming. Dina--for my sake--go out
to the others.(She goes out to the coffee table. At the same moment
RUMMEL, SANDSTAD and VIGELAND come out of BERNICK'S room, followed by
Bernick, who has a bundle of papers in his hand.)
Bernick: Well, then, the matter is settled.
Vigeland: Yes, I hope to goodness it is.
Rummel: It is settled, Bernick. A Norseman's word stands as firm as the
rocks on Dovrefjeld, you know!
Bernick: And no one must falter, no one give way, no matter what
opposition we meet with.
Rummel: We will stand or fall together, Bernick.
Hilmar (coming in from the verandah): Fall? If I may ask, isn't it the
railway scheme that is going to fall?
Bernick: No, on the contrary, it is going to proceed--
