Rebecca. Good morning.
Rosmer (still turning over the leaves of his book). Good morning, dear.
Do you want anything?
Rebecca. Only to ask if you have slept well?
Rosmer. I went to sleep feeling so secure and happy. I did not even
dream. (Turns round.) And you?
Rebecca. Thanks, I got to sleep in the early morning.
Rosmer. I do not think I have felt so light-hearted for a long time as
I do to-day. I am so glad that I had the opportunity to say what I did.
Rebecca. Yes, you should not have been silent so long, John.
Rosmer. I cannot understand how I came to be such a coward.
Rebecca. I am sure it was not really from cowardice.
Rosmer. Yes, indeed. I can see that at bottom there was some cowardice
about it.
Rebecca. So much the braver of you to face it as you did. (Sits down
beside him on a chair by the writing-table.) But now I want to confess
something that I have done--something that you must not be vexed with
me about.
Rosmer. Vexed? My dear girl, how can you think--?
Rebecca. Yes, because I dare say it was a little presumptuous of me,
but--
Rosmer. Well, let me hear what it was.
Rebecca. Last night, when that Ulrick Brendel was going, I wrote him a
line or two to take to Mortensgaard.
Rosmer (a little doubtfully). But, my dear Rebecca--What did you write,
then?
Rebecca. I wrote that he would be doing you a service if he would
interest himself a little in that unfortunate man, and help him in any
way he could.
Rosmer. My dear, you should not have done that. You have only done
Brendel harm by doing so. And besides, Mortensgaard is a man I
particularly wish to have nothing to do with. You know I have been at
loggerheads once with him already.
Rebecca. But do you not think that now it might be a very good thing if
you got on to good terms with him again?
Rosmer. I? With Mortensgaard? For what reason, do you mean?
Rebecca. Well, because you cannot feel altogether secure now--since
this has come between you and your friends.
Rosmer (looking at her and shaking his head). Is it possible that you
think either Kroll or any of the others would take a revenge on
me--that they could be capable of--
Rebecca. In their first heat of indignation dear. No one can be certain
of that. I think, after the way Mr. Kroll took it--
Rosmer. Oh, you ought to know him better than that. Kroll is an
honourable man, through and through. I will go into town this
afternoon, and have a talk with him. I will have a talk with them all.
Oh, you will see how smoothly everything will go. (MRS. HELSETH comes
in by the door on the left.)
Rebecca (getting up). What is it, Mrs. Helseth?
Mrs. Helseth. Mr. Kroll is downstairs in the hall, miss.
