Kroll. Poor soul--she begged and implored me to speak to you.
Rosmer. Then why did you never do so?
Kroll. Do you think I had a moment's doubt, at that time, that her mind
was unhinged? Such an accusation as that, against a man like you! Well,
she came to see me again, about a month later. She seemed calmer then;
but, as she was going away, she said: "They may expect to see the White
Horse soon at Rosmersholm."
Rosmer. Yes, I know--the White Horse. She often used to talk about that.
Kroll. And then, when I tried to distract her from such unhappy
thoughts, she only answered: "I have not much time left; for John must
marry Rebecca immediately now."
Rosmer (almost speechless). What are you saying! I marry--!
Kroll. That was on a Thursday afternoon. On the Saturday evening she
threw herself from the footbridge into the millrace.
Rosmer. And you never warned us!
Kroll. Well, you know yourself how constantly she used to say that she
was sure she would die before long.
Rosmer. Yes, I know. But, all the same, you ought to have warned us!
Kroll. I did think of doing so. But then it was too late.
Rosmer. But since then, why have you not--? Why have you kept all this
to yourself?
Kroll. What good would it have done for me to come here and add to your
pain and distress? Of course I thought the whole thing was merely wild,
empty fancy--until yesterday evening.
Rosmer. Then you do not think so any longer?
Kroll. Did not Beata see clearly enough, when she saw that you were
going to fall away from your childhood's faith?
Rosmer (staring in front of him). Yes, I cannot understand that. It is
the most incomprehensible thing in the world to me.
Kroll. Incomprehensible or not, the thing is true. And now I ask you,
Rosmer, how much truth is there in her other accusation?--the last one,
I mean.
Rosmer. Accusation? Was that an accusation, then?
Kroll. Perhaps you did not notice how it was worded. She said she meant
to stand out of the way. Why? Well?
Rosmer. In order that I might marry Rebecca, apparently.
Kroll. That was not quite how it was worded. Beata expressed herself
differently. She said "I have not much time left; for John must marry
Rebecca IMMEDIATELY now."
Rosmer (looks at him for a moment; then gets up). Now I understand you,
Kroll.
Kroll. And if you do? What answer have you to make?
Rosmer (in an even voice, controlling himself). To such an
unheard-of--? The only fitting answer would be to point to the door.
Kroll (getting up). Very good.
Rosmer (standing face to face with him). Listen to me. For considerably
more than a year to be precise, since Beata's death--Rebecca West and I
have lived here alone at Rosmersholm. All that time you have known of
the charge Beata made against us; but I have never for one moment seen
you appear the least scandalised at our living together here.
