  HIORDIS (laughing). Jests must pass at the feast-board if the
merriment is to thrive.
  GUNNAR (who has been talking softly to THOROLF). Thou art a brave
lad! (Hands him a sword which hangs beside the high-seat.) Here,
Thorolf, here is a good gift for thee. Wield it well, and let us
be friends.
  HIORDIS. Beware how thou givest away thy weapons, Gunnar; for men
may say thou dost part with things thou canst not use!
  THOROLF (who has meanwhile examined the sword). Thanks for the gift,
Gunnar; it shall never be drawn in an unworthy cause.
  HIORDIS. If thou wilt keep that promise, then do thou never lend
the sword to thy brothers.
  GUNNAR. Hiordis!
  HIORDIS (continuing). Neither let it hang on thy father's wall; for
there it would hang with base men's weapons.
  THOROLF. True enough, Hiordis--for there thy father's axe and shield
have hung this many a year.
  HIORDIS (mastering herself). That Ornulf slew my father,--that deed
is ever on thy tongue; but if report speak true, it was scarce so
honourable a deed as thou deemest.
  THOROLF. Of what report dost thou speak?
  HIORDIS. I dare not name it, for it would make thee wroth.
  THOROLF. Then hold thy peace--I ask no better.
    (Turns from her.)
  HIORDIS. Nay, why should I not tell it? Is it true, Thorolf, that
for three nights thy father sat in woman's weed, doing sorceries with
the witch of Smalserhorn, ere he dared face Jokul in fight.
    (All rise; violent excitement among the guests.)
  GUNNAR, SIGURD, AND DAGNY. Hiordis!
  THOROLF (bitterly exasperated). So base a lie has no man spoken of
Ornulf of the Fiords! Thou thyself hast made it, for no one less
venomous than thou could dream of such a thing. The blackest crime
a man can do hast thou laid at my father's door. (Throwing the sword
away.) There, Gunnar, take thy gift again; I can take nought from the
house wherein my father is reviled.
  GUNNAR. Thorolf, hear me----!
  THOROLF. Let me go! But beware both thou and Hiordis; for my father
has now in his power one whom ye hold dearest of all!
  HIORDIS (starting). Thy father has----!
  GUNNAR (with a cry). What sayst thou!
  SIGURD (vehemently). Where is Ornulf?
  THOROLF (with mocking laughter). Gone southward--with my brothers.
  GUNNAR. Southward!
  HIORDIS (shrieking). Gunnar! Ornulf has slain Egil, our son.
  GUNNAR. Slain!--Egil slain! Then woe to Ornulf and all his race!
Thorolf, speak out;--is this true?
  SIGURD. Gunnar, Gunnar--hear me!
  GUNNAR. Speak out, if thou care for thy life!
  THOROLF. Thou canst not fright me! Wait till my father comes;
he shall plant a mark of shame over against Gunnar's house! And
meanwhile, Hiordis, do thou cheer thee with these words I heard
to-day: "Ere eventide shall Gunnar and his wife be childless."
    (Goes out by the back.)
  GUNNAR (in the deepest pain). Slain--slain! My little Egil slain!
  HIORDIS (wildly). And thou--dost thou let him go? Let Egil, thy
child, lie unavenged! Then wert thou the dastard of dastards----!
