  GUNNAR. Nay, nay, he does not so!
  HIORDIS (firmly). Sigurd and Dagny must die! I cannot breathe
till they are gone! (Comes close up to him, with sparkling eyes,
and speaks passionately, but in a whisper.) Would'st thou help
me with _that_, Gunnar, then should I live in love with thee; then
should I clasp thee in such warm and wild embraces as thou hast
never dreamt of!
  GUNNAR (wavering). Hiordis! Would'st thou----
  HIORDIS. Do the deed, Gunnar--and the heavy days shall be past. I
will no longer quit the hall when thou comest, no longer speak harsh
things and quench thy smile when thou art glad. I will clothe me in
furs and costly silken robes. When thou goest to war, I will ride
by thy side. At the feast I will sit by thee and fill thy horn, and
drink to thee and sing fair songs to make glad thy heart!
  GUNNAR (almost overcome). Is it true? Thou wouldst----!
  HIORDIS. More than that, trust me, ten times more! Give me revenge!
Revenge on Sigurd and Dagny, and I will---- (Stops as she sees the
door open.) Dagny--comest thou here!
  DAGNY (from the back). Haste thee, Gunnar! Call thy men to arms!
  GUNNAR. To arms! Against whom?
  DAGNY. Kare the Peasant is coming, and many outlaws with him; he
means thee no good; Sigurd has barred his way for the time; but who
can tell----
  GUNNAR (moved). Sigurd has done this for me!
  DAGNY. Sigurd is ever thy faithful friend.
  GUNNAR. And we, Hiordis--we, who thought to----! It is as I say--
there is a spell in all thy speech; no deed but seemeth fair to me,
when thou dost name it.
  DAGNY (astonished). What meanest thou?
  GUNNAR. Nothing, nothing! Thanks for thy tidings, Dagny; I go to
gather my men together. (Turns towards the door, but stops and comes
forward again.) Tell me--how goes it with Ornulf?
  DAGNY (bowing her head). Ask me not. Yesterday he bore Thorolf's
body to the ships; now he is raising a grave-mound on the shore;--
there shall his son be laid.
    (GUNNAR says nothing and goes out by the back.)
  DAGNY. Until evening there is no danger. (Coming nearer.) Hiordis,
I have another errand in thy house; it is to thee I come.
  HIORDIS. To me? After all that befell yesterday?
  DAGNY. Just because of that. Hiordis, foster-sister, do not hate
me; forget the words that sorrow and evil spirits placed in my mouth;
forgive me all the wrong I have done thee; for, trust me, I am tenfold
more hapless than thou!
  HIORDIS. Hapless--thou! Sigurd's wife!
  DAGNY. It was _my_ doing, all that befell--the stirring up of
strife, and Thorolf's death, and all the scorn that fell upon Gunnar
and thee. Mine is all the guilt! Woe upon me!--I have lived so
happily; but after this day I shall never know joy again.
  HIORDIS (as if seized by a sudden thought). But before--in these
five long years--all that time hast thou been happy?
