  GUNNAR (after a short pause for the exchange of greetings and so
forth). Now to the board! My chief guest, Ornulf of the Fiords, comes
later; so Thorolf promises.
  HIORDIS (to the house-folk). Pass ale and mead around, that hearts
may wax merry and tongues may be loosened.
    (GUNNAR leads SIGURD to the high-seat on the right. DAGNY seats
      herself on SIGURD'S right, HIORDIS opposite him at the other
      side of the same table. THOROLF is in like manner ushered to
      a place at the other table, and thus sits opposite GUNNAR, who
      occupies the greater high-seat. The others take their seats
      further back.)
  HIORDIS (after a pause in which they drink with each other and
converse quietly across the tables). It seldom chances that so many
brave men are seated together, as I see to-night in our hall. It
were fitting, then, that we should essay the old pastime: Let each
man name his chief exploit, that all may judge which is the mightiest.
  GUNNAR. That is an ill custom at a drinking-feast; it will oft
breed strife.
  HIORDIS. Little did I deem that Gunnar was afraid.
  SIGURD. That no one deems; but it were long ere we came to an end,
were we all to tell of our exploits, so many as we be. Do thou rather
tell us, Gunnar, of thy journey to Biarmeland; 'tis no small exploit
to fare so far to the north, and gladly would we hear of it.
  HIORDIS. The journey to Biarmeland is chapman's work, and little
worth to be named among warriors. Nay, do thou begin, Sigurd, if
thou would'st not have me deem that thou shrinkest from hearing my
husband's praise! Say on; name that one of thy deeds which thou
dost prize the highest.
  SIGURD. Well, since thou will have it so, so must it be. Let it
be told, then, that I lay a-viking among the Orkneys; there came
foemen against us, but we swept them from their ships, and I fought
alone against eight men.
  HIORDIS. Good was that deed; but wast thou fully armed?
  SIGURD. Fully armed, with axe, spear, and sword.
  HIORDIS. Still the deed was good. Now must thou, my husband, name
that which thou deemest the greatest among thy exploits.
  GUNNAR (unwillingly). I slew two berserkers who had seized a
merchant-ship; and thereupon I sent the captive chapmen home, giving
them there ship freely, without ransom. The King of England deemed
well of that deed; he said that I had done hounourably, and gave me
thanks and good gifts.
  HIORDIS. Nay truly, Gunnar, a better deed than that couldst thou
name.
  GUNNAR (vehemently). I will boast of no other deed! Since last I
fared from Iceland I have lived at peace and traded in merchandise.
No more word on this matter!
  HIORDIS. If thou thyself wilt hide thy renown, thy wife shall speak.
  GUNNAR. Peace, Hiordis--I command thee!
  HIORDIS. Sigurd fought with eight men, being fully armed; Gunnar
came to my bower in the black night, slew the bear that had twenty
men's strength, and yet had but a short sword in his hand.
