    (Goes out with his men to the right.)
    (The storm has meanwhile ceased; the mid-day sun is now visible,
      like a red disc, low upon the rim of the sea.)
  ORNULF (threateningly). Dearly shalt thou aby this day's work,
foster-daughter!
  DAGNY. Father, father! Surely thou wilt not harm her!
  ORNULF. Let me be! Now, Sigurd, now can no amends avail between
Gunnar and me.
  SIGURD. What thinkest thou to do?
  ORNULF. That I know not; but far and wide shall the tale be told
how Ornulf of the Fiords came to Gunnar's hall.
  SIGURD (with quiet determination). That may be; but this I tell
thee, Ornulf, that thou shalt never bear arms against him so long
as I am alive.
  ORNULF. So, so! And what if it be my will to?
  SIGURD. It shall not be--let thy will be never so strong.
  ORNULF (angrily). Go then; join thou with my foes; I can match the
twain of you!
  SIGURD. Hear me out, Ornulf; the day shall never dawn that shall
see thee and me at strife. There is honourable peace between us,
Dagny is dearer to me than weapons or gold, and never shall I forget
that thou art her nearest kinsman.
  ORNULF. There I know thee again, brave Sigurd!
  SIGURD. But Gunnar is my foster-brother; faith and friendship have
we sworn each other. Both in war and peace have we faced fortune
together, and of all men he is dearest to me. Stout though he be, he
loves not war;--but as for me, ye know, all of you, that I shrink not
from strife; yet here I stand forth, Ornulf, and pray for peace on
Gunnar's behalf. Let me have my will!
  ORNULF. I cannot; I should be a scoff to all brave men, were I to
fare empty-handed back to Iceland.
  SIGURD. Empty-handed shalt thou not fare. Here in the cove my two
long-ships are lying, with all the wealth I have won in my viking-
ventures. There are many costly gifts from outland kings, good
weapons by the chestful, and other priceless chattels. Take thou one
of the ships; choose which thou wilt, and it shall be thine with all
it contains--be that the atonement for Hiordis, and let Gunnar be
at peace.
  ORNULF. Brave Sigurd, wilt thou do this for Gunnar?
  SIGURD. For a faithful friend, no man can do too much.
  ORNULF. Give half thy goods and gear!
  SIGURD (urgently). Take the whole, take both my ships, take all
that is mine, and let me fare with thee to Iceland as the poorest
man in thy train. What I give, I can win once more; but if thou and
Gunnar come to strife, I shall never see a glad day again. Now Ornulf,
thy answer?
  ORNULF (reflecting). Two good long-ships, weapons and other chattels
--too much gear can no man have;  but---- (vehemently) no, no!--
Hiordis has threatened me; I will not! It were shameful for me to
take thy goods!
  SIGURD. Yet listen----
  ORNULF. No, I say! I must fight my own battle, be my fortune what
it may.
