    [1] The "Nornir" were the Fates of northern mythology.
  GUNNAR. Dark are the ways of the Mighty Ones;--neither thou nor I
know aught of them.
  HIORDIS. Yet one thing I know surely: that to both of us must
Sigurd's life be baleful.
    (A pause; GUNNAR stands lost in thought.)
  HIORDIS (who has been silently watching him). Of what thinkest thou?
  GUNNAR. Of a dream I had of late. Methought I had done the deed
thou cravest; Sigurd lay slain on the earth; thou didst stand beside
him, and thy face was wondrous pale. Then said I: "Art thou glad,
now that I have done thy will?" But thou didst laugh and answer:
"Blither were I didst thou, Gunnar, lie there in Sigurd's stead."
  HIORDIS (with forced laughter). Ill must thou know me if such a
senseless dream can make thee hold thy hand.
  GUNNAR. Hm!--Tell me, Hiordis, what thinkest thou of this hall?
  HIORDIS. To speak truly, Gunnar,--it sometimes seems to me to be
straitened.
  GUNNAR. Ay, ay, so I have thought; we are one too many.
  HIORDIS. Two, mayhap.
  GUNNAR (who has not heard her last words). But that shall be
remedied.
  HIORDIS (looks at him interrogatively). Remedied? Then thou art
minded to----?
  GUNNAR. To fit out my warships and put to sea; I will win back the
honour I have lost because thou wast dearer to me than all beside.
  HIORDIS (thoughtfully). Thou wilt put to sea? Ay, so it may be
best for us both.
  GUNNAR. Even from the day we sailed from Iceland, I saw that it
would go ill with us. Thy soul is strong and proud; there are times
when I well nigh fear thee; yet, it is strange--chiefly for that do
I hold thee so dear. Dread enwraps thee like a spell; methinks thou
could'st lure me to the blackest deeds, and all would seem good to
me that thou didst crave. (Shaking his head reflectively.)
Unfathomable is the Norn's rede; Sigurd should have been thy husband.
  HIORDIS (vehemently). Sigurd!
  GUNNAR. Yes, Sigurd. Vengefulness and hatred blind thee, else
would'st thou prize him better. Had I been like Sigurd, I could
have made life bright for thee.
  HIORDIS (with strong but suppressed emotion). That--that deemest
thou Sigurd could have done?
  GUNNAR. He is strong of soul, and proud as thou to boot.
  HIORDIS (violently). If that be so--(Collecting herself.) No
matter, no matter! (With a wild outburst.) Gunnar, take Sigurd's
life!
  GUNNAR. Never!
  HIORDIS. By fraud and falsehood thou mad'st me thy wife--that
shall be forgotten! Five joyless years have I spent in this house--
all shall be forgotten from the day when Sigurd lives no more!
  GUNNAR. From my hand he need fear no harm. (Shrinks back
involuntarily.) Hiordis, Hiordis, tempt me not!
  HIORDIS. Then must I find another avenger; Sigurd shall not live
long to flout at me and thee! (Clenching her hands in convulsive
rage.) With her--that simpleton--with her mayhap he is even now
sitting alone, dallying, and laughing at us; speaking of the bitter
wrong that was done me when in thy stead he bore me away; telling
how he laughed over his guile as he stood in my dark bower, and I
knew him not!
