  ORNULF. He said that! Ha, now I understand; Gunnar has sent his
son away; Kare is at feud with him----
  THOROLF. And now he is rowing southward to slay the boy!
  ORNULF (with sudden resolution). Up all! That booty will we
fight for!
  THOROLF. What wilt thou do?
  ORNULF. Ask me not; it shall be I, and not Kare, that will take
revenge!
  THOROLF. I will go with thee!
  ORNULF. Nay, do thou follow with Sigurd and thy sister to Gunnar's
hall.
  THOROLF. Sigurd? Is he in the isle?
  ORNULF. There may'st thou see his warships; we are at one--do thou
go with him.
  THOROLF. Among thy foes?
  ORNULF. Go thou to the feast. Now shall Hiordis learn to know old
Ornulf! But hark thee, Thorolf, to no one must thou speak of what I
purpose; dost hear? to no one!
  THOROLF. I promise.
  ORNULF (takes his hand and looks at him affectionately). Farewell
then, my fair boy; bear thee in courtly wise at the feast-house, that
I may have honour of thee. Beware of idle babbling; but what thou
sayest, let it be keen as a sword. Be friendly to those that deal
with thee in friendly wise; but if thou be taunted, hold not thy peace.
Drink not more than thou canst bear; but put not the horn aside when
it is offered thee in measure, lest thou be deemed womanish.
  THOROLF. Nay, be at ease.
  ORNULF. Then away to the feast at Gunnar's hall. I too will come
to the feast, and that in the guise they least think of. (Blithely
to the rest.) Come, my wolf-cubs; be your fangs keen;--now shall ye
have blood to drink.
    (He goes off with his elder sons to the right, at the back.)
    (SIGURD and DAGNY come up from the ships, richly dressed for the
      banquet. They are followed by two men, carrying a chest, who
      lay it down and return as they came.)
  THOROLF (looking out after his father). Now fare they all forth to
fight, and I must stay behind; it is hard to be the youngest of the
house.--Dagny! all hail and greetings to thee, sister mine!
  DAGNY. Thorolf! All good powers!--thou art a man, grown!
  THOROLF. That may I well be, forsooth, in five years----
  DAGNY. Ay, true, true.
  SIGURD (giving his his hand). In thee will Ornulf find a stout
carl, or I mistake me.
  THOROLF. Would he but prove me----!
  DAGNY (smiling). He spares thee more than thou hast a mind to? Thou
wast ever well-nigh too dear to him.
  SIGURD. Whither has he gone?
  THOROLF. Down to his ships;--he will return ere long.
  SIGURD. I await my men; they are mooring my ships and bringing
ashore wares.
  THOROLF. There must I lend a hand!
    (Goes down towards the shore.)
  SIGURD (after a moment's reflection). Dagny, my wife, we are alone;
I have that to tell thee which must no longer be hidden.
  DAGNY (surprised). What meanest thou?
  SIGURD. There may be danger in this faring to Gunnar's hall.
