"Ah! I still have the best of it, for my romance finished up
delightfully, as you shall hear. We did well all winter, and no
wonder. What was needed was a little 'boost' in the right direction,
and I could give it; so my Millers were much comforted, and we were
good friends. But in March Grammer died suddenly, and poor Almiry
mourned as if she had been the sweetest mother in the world. The old
lady's last wishes were to be 'laid out harnsome in a cap with a
pale blue satin ribbin, white wasn't becomin', to hev at least three
carriages to the funeral, and be sure a paper with her death in it
was sent to N. Baxter, Westminster, Vermont.'
"I faithfully obeyed her commands, put on the ugly cap myself, gave
a party of old ladies from the home a drive in the hacks, and
carefully directed a marked paper to Nathan, hoping that he HAD
proved 'faithful and true.' I didn't expect he would, so was not
surprised when no answer came. But I WAS rather amazed when Almiry
told me she didn't care to keep on with the store now she was free.
She wanted to visit her friends a spell this spring, and in the fall
would go back to her trade in some milliner's store.
"I was sorry, for I really enjoyed my partnership. It seemed a
little bit ungrateful after all my trouble in getting her customers,
but I didn't say anything, and we sold out to the Widow Bates, who
is a good soul with six children, and will profit by our efforts.
"Almiry bid me good-by with all the grim look gone out of her face,
many thanks, and a hearty promise to write soon. That was in April.
A week ago I got a short letter saying,--
"'DEAR FRIEND,--You will be pleased to hear that I am married to Mr.
Baxter, and shall remain here. He was away when the paper came with
mother's death, but as soon as he got home he wrote. I couldn't make
up my mind till I got home and see him. Now it's all right, and I am
very happy. Many thanks for all you done for me and mother. I shall
never forget it My husband sends respects, and I remain Yours
gratefully, ALMIRA M. BAXTER.'"
"That's splendid! You did well, and next winter you can look up
another sour spinster and cranky old lady and make them happy," said
Anna, with the approving smile all loved to receive from her.
"My adventures are not a bit romantic, or even interesting, and yet
I've been as busy as a bee all winter, and enjoyed my work very
much," began Elizabeth, as the President gave her a nod.
"The plan I had in mind was to go and carry books and papers to the
people in hospitals, as one of Mamma's friends has done for years. I
went once to the City Hospital with her, and it was very
interesting, but I didn't dare to go to the grown people all alone,
so I went to the Children's Hospital, and soon loved to help amuse
the poor little dears. I saved all the picture-books and papers I
could find for them, dressed dolls, and mended toys, and got new
ones, and made bibs and night-gowns, and felt like the mother of a
large family.
