So Jessie did not have to pretend very hard at being "as gay as a
lark" when she got home and showed her treasures. Laura was so happy
over the unexpected gifts that the dinner of bread and milk and
grapes was quite a picnic; and Jessie found a smile on her face when
she went to dress for her party.
It was only a child's party at the house of one of Mademoiselle's
pupils, and Jessie was merely invited to help the little people
through their dancing. She did not like to go in this way, as she
was sure to meet familiar faces there, full of the pity, curiosity,
or indifference so hard for a girl to bear. But Mademoiselle asked
it as a favor, and Jessie was grateful; so she went, expecting no
pleasure and certain of much weariness, if not annoyance.
When she was ready,--and it did not take long to slip on the white
woollen dress, brush out the curly dark hair, and fold up slippers
and gloves,--she stood before her glass looking at herself, quite
conscious that she was very pretty, with her large eyes, blooming
cheeks, and the lofty little air which nothing could change. She was
also painfully conscious that her dress was neither fresh nor
becoming without a bit of ribbon or a knot of flowers to give it the
touch of color it needed. She had an artistic eye, and used to
delight in ordering charming costumes for herself in the happy days
when all her wishes were granted as if fairies still lived. She
tossed over her very small store of ribbons in vain; everything had
been worn till neither beauty nor freshness remained.
"Oh dear! where CAN I find something to make me look less like a
nun,--and a very shabby one, too?" she said, longing for the pink
corals she sold to pay Laura's doctor's bill.
The sound of a soft tap, tap, tap, startled her, and she ran to open
the door. No one was there but Laura, fast asleep on the sofa. Tap,
tap, tap! went the invisible hand; and as the sound seemed to come
from the window, Jessie glanced that way, thinking her tame dove had
come to be fed. Neither hungry dove nor bold sparrow appeared,--only
a spray of Japanese ivy waving in the wind. A very pretty spray it
was, covered with tiny crimson leaves; and it tapped impatiently, as
if it answered her question by saying, "Here is a garland for you;
come and take it."
Jessie's quick eye was caught at once by the fine color, and running
to the window she looked out as eagerly as if a new idea had come
into her head. It was a dull November day, and the prospect of
sheds, ash-barrels, and old brooms was a gloomy one; but the whole
back of the house glowed with the red tendrils of the hardy vine
that clung to and covered the dingy bricks with a royal mantle, as
if eager to cheer the eyes and hearts of all who looked. It preached
a little sermon of courage, aspiration, and content to those who had
the skill to read it, and bade them see how, springing from the
scanty soil of that back yard full of the commonest objects, the
humblest work, it set its little creepers in the crannies of the
stone, and struggled up to find the sun and air, till it grew strong
and beautiful,--making the blank wall green in summer, glorious in
autumn, and a refuge in winter, when it welcomed the sparrows to the
shelter of its branches where the sun lay warmest.
