"Don't stay late, remember, John!" And in Mrs. Lord's voice there was a
warning tone that her son interpreted aright.
"I'll not forget, mother."
And he kept his word; for though Philip's happiness floated temptingly
before him, and the little figure at his side had never seemed so dear,
he ignored the bland winds, the tender night, and set a seal upon his
lips, thinking manfully within himself. "I see many signs of promise in
her happy face; but I will wait and hope a little longer for her sake."
"Where is father, Sally?" asked Nan, as that functionary appeared,
blinking owlishly, but utterly repudiating the idea of sleep.
"He went down the garding, miss, when the gentlemen cleared, bein' a
little flustered by the goin's on.  Shall I fetch him in?" asked Sally,
as irreverently as if her master were a bag of meal.
"No, we will go ourselves." And slowly the two paced down the
leaf-strewn walk.
Fields of yellow grain were waving on the hill-side, and sere corn
blades rustled in the wind, from the orchard came the scent of ripening
fruit, and all the garden-plots lay ready to yield up their humble
offerings to their master's hand.  But in the silence of the night a
greater Reaper had passed by, gathering in the harvest of a righteous
life, and leaving only tender memories for the gleaners who had come so
late.
The old man sat in the shadow of the tree his own hands planted; its
fruit boughs shone ruddily, and its leaves still whispered the low
lullaby that hushed him to his rest.
"How fast he sleeps! Poor father! I should have come before and made it
pleasant for him."
As she spoke, Nan lifted up the head bent down upon his breast, and
kissed his pallid cheek.
"Oh, John, this is not sleep."
"Yes, dear, the happiest he will ever know."
For a moment the shadows flickered over three white faces and the
silence deepened solemnly. Then John reverently bore the pale shape in,
and Nan dropped down beside it, saying, with a rain of grateful tears,--
"He kissed me when I went, and said a last good-night!'"
For an hour steps went to and fro about her, many voices whispered near
her, and skilful hands touched the beloved clay she held so fast; but
one by one the busy feet passed out, one by one the voices died away,
and human skill proved vain.
Then Mrs. Lord drew the orphan to the shelter of her arms, soothing her
with the mute solace of that motherly embrace.
"Nan, Nan! here's Philip! come and see!" The happy call re-echoed
through the house, and Nan sprang up as if her time for grief were past.
"I must tell them. Oh, my poor girls, how will they bear it?--they have
known so little sorrow!"
But there was no need for her to speak; other lips had spared her the
hard task.  For, as she stirred to meet them, a sharp cry rent the air,
steps rang upon the stairs, and two wild-eyed creatures came into the
hush of that familiar room, for the first time meeting with no welcome
from their father's voice.
