When Fanny rose at last, Polly's tired face reproached her; and taking
a hasty leave of the small gentleman, she turned homeward, saying,
confidentially, as she put one hand in Polly's muff, "Now, my dear, you
must n't say a word about Frank Moore, or papa will take my head off. I
don't care a bit for him, and he likes Trix; only they have quarrelled,
and he wants to make her mad by flirting a little with me. I scolded him
well, and he promised to make up with her. We all go to the afternoon
concerts, and have a gay time, and Belle and Trix are to be there
to-day; so just keep quiet, and everything will be all right."
"I'm afraid it won't," began Polly, who, not being used to secrets,
found it very hard to keep even a small one.
"Don't worry, child. It's none of our business; so we can go and enjoy
the music, and if other people flirt, it won't be our fault," said
Fanny, impatiently.
"Of course not; but, then, if your father don't like you to do so, ought
you to go?"
"I tell mamma, and she don't care. Papa is fussy, and grandma makes a
stir about every blessed thing I do. You will hold your tongue, won't
you?"
"Yes; I truly will; I never tell tales." And Polly kept her word,
feeling sure Fan did n't mean to deceive her father, since she told her
mother everything.
"Who are you going with?" asked Mrs. Shaw, when Fanny mentioned that it
was concert-day, just before three o'clock.
"Only Polly; she likes music, and it was so stormy I could n't go last
week, you know," answered Fan; adding, as they left the house again, "If
any one meets us on the way, I can't help it, can I?"
"You can tell them not to, can't you?"
"That's rude. Dear me! here's Belle's brother Gus he always goes. Is
my hair all right, and my hat?"
Before Polly could answer, Mr. Gus joined them as a matter of course,
and Polly soon found herself trotting on behind, feeling that things
were not "all right," though she did n't know how to mend them. Being
fond of music, she ignorantly supposed that every one else went for that
alone, and was much disturbed by the whispering that went on among the
young people round her. Belle and Trix were there in full dress; and, in
the pauses between different pieces, Messrs. Frank and Gus, with several
other "splendid fellows," regaled the young ladies with college gossip,
and bits of news full of interest, to judge from the close attention
paid to their eloquent remarks. Polly regarded these noble beings with
awe, and they recognized her existence with the condescension of their
sex; but they evidently considered her only "a quiet little thing," and
finding her not up to society talk, blandly ignored the pretty child,
and devoted themselves to the young ladies. Fortunately for Polly, she
forgot all about them in her enjoyment of the fine music, which she felt
rather than understood, and sat listening with such a happy face, that
several true music-lovers watched her smilingly, for her heart gave a
blithe welcome to the melody which put the little instrument in tune.
It was dusk when they went out, and Polly was much relieved to find the
carriage waiting for them, because playing third fiddle was not to her
taste, and she had had enough of it for one day.
