"No," said Polly, "I can't come."
"Why not? Are you mad? I did n't tell." And Tom looked amazed at the
change which had come over her.
"No; you kept your word, and stood by me like a good boy. I'm not mad,
either; but I don't mean to coast any more. Your mother don't like it."
"That is n't the reason, I know. You nodded to me after she'd freed her
mind, and you meant to go then. Come, now, what is it?"
"I shan't tell you; but I'm not going," was Polly's determined answer.
"Well, I did think you had more sense than most girls; but you have n't,
and I would n't give a sixpence for you."
"That's polite," said Polly, getting ruffled.
"Well, I hate cowards."
"I ain't a coward."
"Yes, you are. You're afraid of what folks will say; ain't you, now?"
Polly knew she was, and held her peace, though she longed to speak; but
how could she?
"Ah, I knew you'd back out." And Tom walked away with an air of scorn
that cut Polly to the heart.
"It's too bad! Just as he was growing kind to me, and I was going to
have a good time, it's all spoilt by Fan's nonsense. Mrs. Shaw don't
like it, nor grandma either, I dare say. There'll be a fuss if I go,
and Fan will plague me; so I'll give it up, and let Tom think I'm
afraid. Oh, dear! I never did see such ridiculous people."
Polly shut her door hard, and felt ready to cry with vexation, that her
pleasure should be spoilt by such a silly idea; for, of all the silly
freaks of this fast age, that of little people playing at love is about
the silliest. Polly had been taught that it was a very serious and
sacred thing; and, according to her notions, it was far more improper to
flirt with one boy than to coast with a dozen. She had been much amazed,
only the day before, to hear Maud say to her mother, "Mamma, must I have
a beau? The girls all do, and say I ought to have Fweddy Lovell; but I
don't like him as well as Hawry Fiske."
"Oh, yes; I'd have a little sweetheart, dear, it's so cunning,"
answered Mrs. Shaw. And Maud announced soon after that she was engaged
to "Fweddy,'cause Hawry slapped her" when she proposed the match.
Polly laughed with the rest at the time; but when she thought of it
afterward, and wondered what her own mother would have said, if little
Kitty had put such a question, she did n't find it cunning or funny, but
ridiculous and unnatural. She felt so now about herself; and when her
first petulance was over, resolved to give up coasting and everything
else, rather than have any nonsense with Tom, who, thanks to his
neglected education, was as ignorant as herself of the charms of this
new amusement for school-children. So Polly tried to console herself
by jumping rope in the back-yard, and playing tag with Maud in the
drying-room, where she likewise gave lessons in "nas-gim-nics," as Maud
called it, which did that little person good. Fanny came up sometimes
to teach them a new dancing step, and more than once was betrayed into
a game of romps, for which she was none the worse. But Tom turned a cold
shoulder to Polly, and made it evident, by his cavalier manner that he
really did n't think her "worth a sixpence."
