"It is possible that they may never come back. Accidents will happen you
know. Are you prepared for that?" asked Mr. Plum, pausing with the brown
paper spread out before him.
"I am," answered Maggie firmly, as she laid Flora on the table, her
black eyes staring as if rather alarmed at this sudden start.
Marjory hesitated a moment, clasping Dora to her bosom with a face full
of maternal anxiety. But Susy, Lucy and Lizzie cried: "Let her go, do
let her go, and if she is lost papa will give you a new doll."
"Good-by, my darling dear. Have a splendid time, and be sure you come
back to me," whispered Marjory, with a tender farewell kiss as she gave
up her child.
All stood watching silently while papa tied the dolls back to back with
the ribbon Kate pulled from her neck, then folded them carefully in
strong brown paper, leaving their heads out that they might see the
world as they went along. Being carefully fastened up with several turns
of cord, Mr. Plum directed the precious parcel to "Miss Maria Plum,
Portland, Maine. With care." Then it was weighed, stamped, and
pronounced ready for the post.
"I shall write and tell aunty they are coming, because she will want to
be prepared for such distinguished visitors," said papa, taking up his
pen with a glance at the six excited little faces round him.
Silence reigned while the letter was written, and as he sealed it up Mr.
Plum said solemnly, with his hand on the parcel:
"For the last time, shall they go?"
"Yes!" answered the Spartan mothers with one voice, while the other
sisters danced round them, and Kate patted the curly heads approvingly.
"Going, going, gone!" answered papa as he whisked on his coat and hat,
and slammed the door behind him.
The children clustered at the window to see him set out on this
momentous errand, and he often looked back waving his umbrella at them,
till he vanished round the corner, with a reassuring pat on the pocket
out of which dear Do and Flo popped their heads for a last look at their
sweet home.
"Now let us take out poor old Lucinda and Rose Augusta to play with. I
know their feelings were hurt at our leaving them for the new dolls,"
said Maggie, rummaging in the baby-house, whither Margery soon followed
her to reinstate the old darlings in the place of the departed new ones.
"Safely off," reported Mr. Plum, when he came into tea, "and we may
expect to hear from them in a week or two. Parcels go more slowly than
letters, and this is Aunty's busy season, so wait patiently and see what
will happen."
"We will," said the little girls; and they did, but week after week went
by and nothing was heard of the wanderers.
We, however, can follow them and learn much that their anxious mothers
never knew.
As soon as Flora and Dora recovered from the bewilderment occasioned by
the confusion of the post office, they found themselves in one of the
many leathern mail bags rumbling Eastward. As it was perfectly dark they
could not see their companions, so listened to the whispering and
rustling that went on about them. The newspapers all talked politics,
and some of them used such bad language that the dolls would have
covered their ears, if their hands had not been tied down. The letters
were better behaved and more interesting, for they told one another the
news they carried, because nothing is private in America, and even
gummed envelopes cannot keep gossip from leaking out.
