Her only salvation was trying to fix her attention upon Uncle Mac,--a
portly, placid gentleman, who seemed entirely unconscious of the
iniquities of the Clan, and dozed peacefully in his pew corner. This was
the only uncle Rose had met for years, for Uncle Jem and Uncle Steve,
the husbands of Aunt Jessie and Aunt Clara, were at sea, and Aunt Myra
was a widow. Uncle Mac was a merchant, very rich and busy, and as quiet
as a mouse at home, for he was in such a minority among the women folk
he dared not open his lips, and let his wife rule undisturbed.
Rose liked the big, kindly, silent man who came to her when papa died,
was always sending her splendid boxes of goodies at school, and often
invited her into his great warehouse, full of teas and spices, wines and
all sorts of foreign fruits, there to eat and carry away whatever she
liked. She had secretly regretted that he was not to be her guardian;
but since she had seen Uncle Alec she felt better about it, for she did
not particularly admire Aunt Jane.
When church was over, Dr. Alec got into the porch as quickly as
possible, and there the young bears had a hug all round, while the
sisters shook hands and welcomed him with bright faces and glad hearts.
Rose was nearly crushed flat behind a door in that dangerous passage
from pew to porch; but Uncle Mac rescued her, and put her into the
carriage for safe keeping.
"Now, girls, I want you all to come and dine with Alec; Mac also, of
course. But I cannot ask the boys, for we did not expect this dear
fellow till to-morrow, you know, so I made no preparations. Send the
lads home, and let them wait till Monday, for really I was shocked at
their behavior in church," said Aunt Plenty, as she followed Rose.
In any other place the defrauded boys would have set up a howl; as it
was, they growled and protested till Dr. Alec settled the matter by
saying,--
"Never mind, old chaps, I'll make it up to you to-morrow, if you sheer
off quietly; if you don't, not a blessed thing shall you have out of my
big boxes."
CHAPTER IV.
_AUNTS._
ALL dinner-time Rose felt that she was going to be talked about, and
afterward she was sure of it, for Aunt Plenty whispered to her as they
went into the parlor,--
"Run up and sit awhile with Sister Peace, my dear. She likes to have you
read while she rests, and we are going to be busy."
Rose obeyed, and the quiet rooms above were so like a church that she
soon composed her ruffled feelings, and was unconsciously a little
minister of happiness to the sweet old lady, who for years had sat there
patiently waiting to be set free from pain.
Rose knew the sad romance of her life, and it gave a certain tender
charm to this great-aunt of hers, whom she already loved. When Peace was
twenty, she was about to be married; all was done, the wedding-dress lay
ready, the flowers were waiting to be put on, the happy hour at hand,
when word came that the lover was dead. They thought that gentle Peace
would die too; but she bore it bravely, put away her bridal gear, took
up her life afresh, and lived on,--a beautiful, meek woman, with hair
as white as snow and cheeks that never bloomed again. She wore no
black, but soft, pale colors, as if always ready for the marriage that
had never come.
