"No one but Annabel Bliss, and she was _such_ a goose I couldn't bear
her. The boys came yesterday, and seemed rather nice; but, of course, I
couldn't play with them."
"Why not?"
"I'm too old to play with boys."
"Not a bit of it: that's just what you need, for you've been
molly-coddled too much. They are good lads, and you'll be mixed up with
them more or less for years to come, so you may as well be friends and
playmates at once. I will look you up some girls also, if I can find a
sensible one who is not spoilt by her nonsensical education."
"Phebe is sensible, I'm sure, and I like her, though I only saw her
yesterday," cried Rose, waking up suddenly.
"And who is Phebe, if you please?"
Rose eagerly told all she knew, and Uncle Alec listened, with an odd
smile lurking about his mouth, though his eyes were quite sober as he
watched the face before him.
"I'm glad to see that you are not aristocratic in your tastes, but I
don't quite make out why you like this young lady from the poor-house."
"You may laugh at me, but I do. I can't tell why, only she seems so
happy and busy, and sings so beautifully, and is strong enough to scrub
and sweep, and hasn't any troubles to plague her," said Rose, making a
funny jumble of reasons in her efforts to explain.
"How do you know that?"
"Oh, I was telling her about mine, and asked if she had any, and she
said, 'No, only I'd like to go to school, and I mean to some day.'"
"So she doesn't call desertion, poverty, and hard work, troubles? She's
a brave little girl, and I shall be proud to know her." And Uncle Alec
gave an approving nod, that made Rose wish she had been the one to earn
it.
"But what are these troubles of yours, child?" he asked, after a minute
of silence.
"Please don't ask me, uncle."
"Can't you tell them to me as well as to Phebe?"
Something in his tone made Rose feel that it would be better to speak
out and be done with it, so she answered, with sudden color and averted
eyes,--
"The greatest one was losing dear papa."
As she said that, Uncle Alec's arm came gently round her, and he drew
her to him, saying, in the voice so like papa's,--
"That _is_ a trouble which I cannot cure, my child; but I shall try to
make you feel it less. What else, dear?"
"I am so tired and poorly all the time, I can't do any thing I want to,
and it makes me cross," sighed Rose, rubbing the aching head like a
fretful child.
"That we _can_ cure and we _will_," said her uncle, with a decided nod
that made the curls bob on his head, so that Rose saw the gray ones
underneath the brown.
"Aunt Myra says I have no constitution, and never shall be strong,"
observed Rose, in a pensive tone, as if it was rather a nice thing to be
an invalid.
