"It's thunder," said Phebe.
"It's a circus!" cried Rose, who from her elevated perch had caught
glimpses of a gay cart of some sort and several ponies with flying manes
and tails.
The sound died away, and the girls were about to continue their
confidences when old Debby appeared, looking rather cross and sleepy
after her nap.
"You are wanted in the parlor, Miss Rose."
"Has anybody come?"
"Little girls shouldn't ask questions, but do as they are bid," was all
Debby would answer.
"I do hope it isn't Aunt Myra; she always scares me out of my wits
asking how my cough is, and groaning over me as if I was going to die,"
said Rose, preparing to retire the way she came, for the slide, being
cut for the admission of bouncing Christmas turkeys and puddings, was
plenty large enough for a slender girl.
"Guess you'll wish it _was_ Aunt Myra when you see who has come. Don't
never let me catch you coming into my kitchen that way again, or I'll
shut you up in the big biler," growled Debby, who thought it her duty to
snub children on all occasions.
CHAPTER II.
_THE CLAN._
ROSE scrambled into the china-closet as rapidly as possible, and there
refreshed herself by making faces at Debby, while she settled her
plumage and screwed up her courage. Then she crept softly down the hall
and peeped into the parlor. No one appeared, and all was so still she
felt sure the company was upstairs. So she skipped boldly through the
half-open folding-doors, to behold on the other side a sight that nearly
took her breath away.
Seven boys stood in a row,--all ages, all sizes, all yellow-haired and
blue-eyed, all in full Scotch costume, and all smiling, nodding, and
saying as with one voice, "How are you, cousin?"
Rose gave a little gasp and looked wildly about her as if ready to fly,
for fear magnified the seven and the room seemed full of boys. Before
she could run, however, the tallest lad stepped out of the line, saying
pleasantly,--
"Don't be frightened. This is the clan come to welcome you; and I'm the
chief, Archie, at your service."
[Illustration: THE EIGHT COUSINS.--Page 10.]
He held out his hand as he spoke, and Rose timidly put her own into a
brown paw, which closed over the white morsel and held it as the chief
continued his introductions.
"We came in full rig, for we always turn out in style on grand
occasions. Hope you like it. Now I'll tell you who these chaps are, and
then we shall be all right. This big one is Prince Charlie, Aunt Clara's
boy. She has but one, so he is an extra good one. This old fellow is
Mac, the bookworm, called Worm for short. This sweet creature is Steve
the Dandy. Look at his gloves and top-knot, if you please. They are Aunt
Jane's lads, and a precious pair you'd better believe. These are the
Brats, my brothers, Geordie and Will, and Jamie the Baby. Now, my men,
step out and show your manners."
