"I feel as if I was at a party," said Jill, after a pause occupied
in surveying her gallery with great satisfaction, for dress was her
delight, and here she had every conceivable style and color.
"Talking of parties, isn't it too bad that we must give up our Christmas
fun? Can't get on without you and Jack, so we are not going to do a
thing, but just have our presents," said Merry, sadly, as they began to
fit different heads and bodies together, to try droll effects.
"I shall be all well in a fortnight, I know; but Jack won't, for it will
take more than a month to mend his poor leg. May be they will have a
dance in the boys' big room, and he can look on," suggested Jill, with
a glance at the dancing damsel on the wall, for she dearly loved it, and
never guessed how long it would be before her light feet would keep time
to music again.
"You'd better give Jack a hint about the party. Send over some smart
ladies, and say they have come to his Christmas ball," proposed
audacious Molly Loo, always ready for fun.
So they put a preposterous green bonnet, top-heavy with plumes, on a
little lady in yellow, who sat in a carriage; the lady beside her, in
winter costume of velvet pelisse and ermine boa, was fitted to a bride's
head with its orange flowers and veil, and these works of art were sent
over to Jack, labelled "Miss Laura and Lotty Burton going to the Minots'
Christmas ball,"--a piece of naughtiness on Jill's part, for she knew
Jack liked the pretty sisters, whose gentle manners made her own wild
ways seem all the more blamable.
No answer came for a long time, and the girls had almost forgotten their
joke in a game of Letters, when "Tingle, tangle!" went the bell, and the
basket came in heavily laden. A roll of colored papers was tied outside,
and within was a box that rattled, a green and silver horn, a roll of
narrow ribbons, a spool of strong thread, some large needles, and a note
from Mrs. Minot:--
"Dear Jill,--I think of having a Christmas tree so that our invalids can
enjoy it, and all your elegant friends are cordially invited. Knowing
that you would like to help, I send some paper for sugar-plum horns and
some beads for necklaces. They will brighten the tree and please
the girls for themselves or their dolls. Jack sends you a horn for a
pattern, and will you make a ladder-necklace to show him how? Let me
know if you need anything.
"Yours in haste,
"Anna Minot"
"She knew what the child would like, bless her kind heart," said Mrs.
Pecq to herself, and something brighter than the most silvery bead shone
on Jack's shirt-sleeve, as she saw the rapture of Jill over the new work
and the promised pleasure.
Joyful cries greeted the opening of the box, for bunches of splendid
large bugles appeared in all colors, and a lively discussion went on as
to the best contrasts. Jill could not refuse to let her friends share
the pretty work, and soon three necklaces glittered on three necks, as
each admired her own choice.
