"Am I hurt badly, Mammy?"
"I fear it, lass."
"I'm _glad_ of it; I ought to be worse than Jack, and I hope I am. I'll
bear it well, and be good right away. Sing, Mammy, and I'll try to go to
sleep to please you."
Jill shut her eyes with sudden and unusual meekness, and before her
mother had crooned half a dozen verses of an old ballad, the little
black head lay still upon the pillow, and repentant Jill was fast asleep
with a red mitten in her hand.
Mrs. Pecq was an Englishwoman who had left Montreal at the death of her
husband, a French Canadian, and had come to live in the tiny cottage
which stood near Mrs. Minot's big house, separated only by an
arbor-vitae hedge. A sad, silent person, who had seen better days, but
said nothing about them, and earned her bread by sewing, nursing, work
in the factory, or anything that came in her way, being anxious to
educate her little girl. Now, as she sat beside the bed in the small,
poor room, that hope almost died within her, for here was the child
laid up for months, probably, and the one ambition and pleasure of the
solitary woman's life was to see Janey Pecq's name over all the high
marks in the school-reports she proudly brought home.
"She'll win through, please Heaven, and I'll see my lass a gentlewoman
yet, thanks to the good friend in yonder, who will never let her want
for care," thought the poor soul, looking out into the gloom where a
long ray of light streamed from the great house warm and comfortable
upon the cottage, like the spirit of kindness which made the inmates
friends and neighbors.
Meantime, that other mother sat by her boy's bed as anxious but with
better hope, for Mrs. Minot made trouble sweet and helpful by the way in
which she bore it; and her boys were learning of her how to find silver
linings to the clouds that must come into the bluest skies.
Jack lay wide awake, with hot cheeks, and throbbing head, and all sorts
of queer sensations in the broken leg. The soothing potion he had
taken did not affect him yet, and he tried to beguile the weary time by
wondering who came and went below. Gentle rings at the front door, and
mysterious tappings at the back, had been going on all the evening; for
the report of the accident had grown astonishingly in its travels, and
at eight o'clock the general belief was that Jack had broken both legs,
fractured his skull, and lay at the point of death, while Jill had
dislocated one shoulder, and was bruised black and blue from top to
toe. Such being the case, it is no wonder that anxious playmates and
neighbors haunted the doorsteps of the two houses, and that offers of
help poured in.
Frank, having tied up the bell and put a notice in the lighted
side-window, saying, "Go to the back door," sat in the parlor, supported
by his chum, Gus, while Ed played softly on the piano, hoping to lull
Jack to sleep. It did soothe him, for a very sweet friendship existed
between the tall youth and the lad of thirteen. Ed went with the
big fellows, but always had a kind word for the smaller boys; and
affectionate Jack, never ashamed to show his love, was often seen with
his arm round Ed's shoulder, as they sat together in the pleasant red
parlors, where all the young people were welcome and Frank was king.
