'Very sorry. I'll call again. Is this her study? Charming room!' And the
intruder fell back on the parlour, bound to see something and bag a fact
if he died in the attempt. 'It is not,' said Teddy, gently but firmly
backing him down the hall, devoutly hoping that his mother had escaped
round the corner of the house.
'If you could tell me Mrs Bhaer's age and birthplace, date of marriage,
and number of children, I should be much obliged,' continued the
unabashed visitor as he tripped over the door-mat.
'She is about sixty, born in Nova Zembla, married just forty years ago
today, and has eleven daughters. Anything else, sir?' And Ted's sober
face was such a funny contrast to his ridiculous reply that the reporter
owned himself routed, and retired laughing just as a lady followed by
three beaming girls came up the steps.
'We are all the way from Oshkosh, and couldn't go home without seein'
dear Aunt Jo. My girls just admire her works, and lot on gettin' a
sight of her. I know it's early; but we are goin' to see Holmes and
Longfeller, and the rest of the celebrities, so we ran out here fust
thing. Mrs Erastus Kingsbury Parmalee, of Oshkosh, tell her. We don't
mind waitin'; we can look round a spell if she ain't ready to see folks
yet.'
All this was uttered with such rapidity that Ted could only stand
gazing at the buxom damsels, who fixed their six blue eyes upon him so
beseechingly that his native gallantry made it impossible to deny them a
civil reply at least.
'Mrs Bhaer is not visible today--out just now, I believe; but you can
see the house and grounds if you like,' he murmured, falling back as the
four pressed in gazing rapturously about them.
'Oh, thank you! Sweet, pretty place I'm sure! That's where she writes,
ain't it? Do tell me if that's her picture! Looks just as I imagined
her!'
With these remarks the ladies paused before a fine engraving of the Hon.
Mrs Norton, with a pen in her hand and a rapt expression of countenance,
likewise a diadem and pearl necklace.
Keeping his gravity with an effort, Teddy pointed to a very bad portrait
of Mrs Jo, which hung behind the door, and afforded her much amusement,
it was so dismal, in spite of a curious effect of light upon the end of
the nose and cheeks as red as the chair she sat in.
'This was taken for my mother; but it is not very good,' he said,
enjoying the struggles of the girls not to look dismayed at the sad
difference between the real and the ideal. The youngest, aged twelve,
could not conceal her disappointment, and turned away, feeling as so
many of us have felt when we discover that our idols are very ordinary
men and women.
'I thought she'd be about sixteen and have her hair braided in two
tails down her back. I don't care about seeing her now,' said the honest
child, walking off to the hall door, leaving her mother to apologize,
and her sisters to declare that the bad portrait was 'perfectly lovely,
so speaking and poetic, you know, 'specially about the brow'.
