'Such being the case, there is plenty for the "superfluous women" to do,
in taking care of these helpless men and their families. I see that more
clearly every day, and am very glad and grateful that my profession will
make me a useful, happy, and independent spinster.'
Nan's emphasis on the last word caused Tom to groan, and the rest to
laugh.
'I take great pride and solid satisfaction in you, Nan, and hope to
see you very successful; for we do need just such helpful women in the
world. I sometimes feel as if I've missed my vocation and ought to
have remained single; but my duty seemed to point this way, and I don't
regret it,' said Mrs Jo, folding a large and very ragged blue sock to
her bosom.
'Neither do I. What should I ever have done without my dearest Mum?'
added Ted, with a filial hug which caused both to disappear behind the
newspaper in which he had been mercifully absorbed for a few minutes.
'My darling boy, if you would wash your hands semi-occasionally, fond
caresses would be less disastrous to my collar. Never mind, my precious
touslehead, better grass stains and dirt than no cuddlings at all'; and
Mrs Jo emerged from that brief eclipse looking much refreshed, though
her back hair was caught in Ted's buttons and her collar under one ear.
Here Josie, who had been studying her part at the other end of the
piazza, suddenly burst forth with a smothered shriek, and gave Juliet's
speech in the tomb so effectively that the boys applauded, Daisy
shivered, and Nan murmured: 'Too much cerebral excitement for one of her
age.'
'I'm afraid you'll have to make up your mind to it, Meg. That child is
a born actress. We never did anything so well, not even the Witch's
Curse,' said Mrs Jo, casting a bouquet of many-coloured socks at the
feet of her flushed and panting niece, when she fell gracefully upon the
door-mat.
'It is a sort of judgement upon me for my passion for the stage when a
girl. Now I know how dear Marmee felt when I begged to be an actress. I
never can consent, and yet I may be obliged to give up my wishes, hopes,
and plans again.'
There was an accent of reproach in his mother's voice, which made Demi
pick up his sister with a gentle shake, and the stern command to 'drop
that nonsense in public'.
'Drop me, Minion, or I'll give you the Maniac Bride, with my best
Ha-ha!' cried Josie, glaring at him like an offended kitten. Being set
on her feet, she made a splendid courtesy, and dramatically proclaiming,
'Mrs Woffington's carriage waits,' swept down the steps and round the
corner, trailing Daisy's scarlet shawl majestically behind her.
'Isn't she great fun? I couldn't stop in this dull place if I hadn't
that child to make it lively for me. If ever she turns prim, I'm off; so
mind how you nip her in the bud,' said Teddy, frowning at Demi, who was
now writing out shorthand notes on the steps.
