'The poor little Atalantas are sadly distracted and delayed by the
obstacles thrown in their way--not golden apples, by any means--but
I think they will stand a fair chance when they have learned to run
better,' laughed Uncle Laurie, stroking Josie's breezy hair, which stood
up like the fur of an angry kitten.
'Whole barrels of apples won't stop me when I start, and a dozen Teds
won't trip me up, though they may try. I'll show him that a woman can
act as well, if not better, than a man. It has been done, and will be
again; and I'll never own that my brain isn't as good as his, though it
may be smaller,' cried the excited young person.
'If you shake your head in that violent way you'll addle what brains you
have got; and I'd take care of 'em, if I were you,' began teasing Ted.
'What started this civil war?' asked Grandpapa, with a gentle emphasis
on the adjective, which caused the combatants to calm their ardour a
little.
'Why, we were pegging away at the Iliad and came to where Zeus tells
Juno not to inquire into his plans or he'll whip her, and Jo was
disgusted because Juno meekly hushed up. I said it was all right, and
agreed with the old fellow that women didn't know much and ought to obey
men,' explained Ted, to the great amusement of his hearers.
'Goddesses may do as they like, but those Greek and Trojan women were
poor-spirited things if they minded men who couldn't fight their own
battles and had to be hustled off by Pallas, and Venus, and Juno, when
they were going to get beaten. The idea of two armies stopping and
sitting down while a pair of heroes flung stones at one another! I don't
think much of your old Homer. Give me Napoleon or Grant for my hero.'
Josie's scorn was as funny as if a humming-bird scolded at an ostrich,
and everyone laughed as she sniffed at the immortal poet and criticized
the gods.
'Napoleon's Juno had a nice time; didn't she? That's just the way girls
argue--first one way and then the other,' jeered Ted.
'Like Johnson's young lady, who was "not categorical, but all
wiggle-waggle",' added Uncle Laurie, enjoying the battle immensely.
'I was only speaking of them as soldiers. But if you come to the woman
side of it, wasn't Grant a kind husband and Mrs Grant a happy woman?
He didn't threaten to whip her if she asked a natural question; and if
Napoleon did do wrong about Josephine, he could fight, and didn't want
any Minerva to come fussing over him. They were a stupid set, from
dandified Paris to Achilles sulking in his ships, and I won't change my
opinion for all the Hectors and Agamemnons in Greece,' said Josie, still
unconquered.
'You can fight like a Trojan, that's evident; and we will be the two
obedient armies looking on while you and Ted have it out,' began Uncle
Laurie, assuming the attitude of a warrior leaning on his spear.
