"A gloomy wood," according to the one play-bill, was represented by a
few shrubs in pots, green baize on the floor, and a cave in the
distance. This cave was made with a clothes-horse for a roof, bureaus
for walls; and in it was a small furnace in full blast, with a black pot
on it, and an old witch bending over it. The stage was dark, and the
glow of the furnace had a fine effect, especially as real steam issued
from the kettle when the witch took off the cover. A moment was allowed
for the first thrill to subside; then Hugo, the villain, stalked in with
a clanking sword at his side, a slouched hat, black beard, mysterious
cloak, and the boots. After pacing to and fro in much agitation, he
struck his forehead, and burst out in a wild strain, singing of his
hatred to Roderigo, his love for Zara, and his pleasing resolution to
kill the one and win the other. The gruff tones of Hugo's voice, with an
occasional shout when his feelings overcame him, were very impressive,
and the audience applauded the moment he paused for breath. Bowing with
the air of one accustomed to public praise, he stole to the cavern, and
ordered Hagar to come forth with a commanding "What ho, minion! I need
thee!"
[Illustration: Out came Meg with gray horse-hair hanging about her face]
Out came Meg, with gray horse-hair hanging about her face, a red and
black robe, a staff, and cabalistic signs upon her cloak. Hugo demanded
a potion to make Zara adore him, and one to destroy Roderigo. Hagar, in
a fine dramatic melody, promised both, and proceeded to call up the
spirit who would bring the love philter:--
        "Hither, hither, from thy home,
         Airy sprite, I bid thee come!
         Born of roses, fed on dew,
         Charms and potions canst thou brew?
         Bring me here, with elfin speed,
         The fragrant philter which I need;
         Make it sweet and swift and strong,
         Spirit, answer now my song!"
            [Illustration: A little figure in cloudy white]
A soft strain of music sounded, and then at the back of the cave
appeared a little figure in cloudy white, with glittering wings, golden
hair, and a garland of roses on its head. Waving a wand, it sang,--
         "Hither I come,
          From my airy home,
        Afar in the silver moon.
          Take the magic spell,
          And use it well,
        Or its power will vanish soon!"
And, dropping a small, gilded bottle at the witch's feet, the spirit
vanished. Another chant from Hagar produced another apparition,--not a
lovely one; for, with a bang, an ugly black imp appeared, and, having
croaked a reply, tossed a dark bottle at Hugo, and disappeared with a
mocking laugh. Having warbled his thanks and put the potions in his
boots, Hugo departed; and Hagar informed the audience that, as he had
killed a few of her friends in times past, she has cursed him, and
intends to thwart his plans, and be revenged on him. Then the curtain
fell, and the audience reposed and ate candy while discussing the merits
of the play.
