   _Tuesday._--More people coming to live with us; I wish we could
   be together, and no one else. I don't see who is to clothe and
   feed us all, when we are so poor now. I was very dismal, and then
   went to walk and made a poem.
     DESPONDENCY.
           Silent and sad,
           When all are glad,
     And the earth is dressed in flowers;
           When the gay birds sing
           Till the forests ring,
     As they rest in woodland bowers.
           Oh, why these tears,
           And these idle fears
     For what may come to-morrow?
           The birds find food
           From God so good,
     And the flowers know no sorrow.
           If He clothes these
           And the leafy trees,
     Will He not cherish thee?
           Why doubt His care;
           It is everywhere,
     Though the way we may not see.
           Then why be sad
           When all are glad,
     And the world is full of flowers?
           With the gay birds sing,
           Make life all Spring,
     And smile through the darkest hours.
Louisa Alcott grew up so naturally in a healthy religious atmosphere
that she breathed and worked in it without analysis or question. She
had not suffered from ecclesiastical tyranny or sectarian bigotry,
and needed not to expend any time or strength in combating them. She
does not appear to have suffered from doubt or questioning, but to
have gone on her way fighting all the real evils that were presented
to her, trusting in a sure power of right, and confident of victory.
   CONCORD, _Thursday._--I had an early run in the woods before the
   dew was off the grass. The moss was like velvet, and as I ran
   under the arches of yellow and red leaves I sang for joy, my
   heart was so bright and the world so beautiful. I stopped at the
   end of the walk and saw the sunshine out over the wide "Virginia
   meadows."
   It seemed like going through a dark life or grave into heaven
   beyond. A very strange and solemn feeling came over me as I stood
   there, with no sound but the rustle of the pines, no one near me,
   and the sun so glorious, as for me alone. It seemed as if I
   _felt_ God as I never did before, and I prayed in my heart that I
   might keep that happy sense of nearness all my life.
   [I have, for I most sincerely think that the little girl "got
   religion" that day in the wood when dear mother Nature led her to
   God.--L. M. A., 1885.]
One of Louisa's strongest desires at this time was for a room of her
own, where she might have the solitude she craved to dream her dreams
and work out her fancies. These sweet little notes and an extract from
her journal show how this desire was felt and gratified.
   DEAREST MOTHER,--I have tried to be more contented, and I think I
   have been more so. I have been thinking about my little room,
   which I suppose I never shall have. I should want to be there
   about all the time, and I should go there and sing and think.
