Louisa gives this interesting anecdote of their life at that time:--
   People wondered at our frolics, but enjoyed them, and droll
   stories are still told of the adventures of those days. Mr.
   Emerson and Margaret Fuller were visiting my parents one
   afternoon, and the conversation having turned to the ever
   interesting subject of education, Miss Fuller said:--
   "Well, Mr. Alcott, you have been able to carry out your methods
   in your own family, and I should like to see your model
   children."
   She did in a few moments, for as the guests stood on the
   door-steps a wild uproar approached, and round the corner of the
   house came a wheelbarrow holding baby May arrayed as a queen; I
   was the horse, bitted and bridled, and driven by my elder sister
   Anna; while Lizzie played dog, and barked as loud as her gentle
   voice permitted.
   All were shouting and wild with fun, which, however, came to a
   sudden end as we espied the stately group before us; for my foot
   tripped, and down we all went in a laughing heap; while my mother
   put a climax to the joke by saying, with a dramatic wave of the
   hand,--
   "Here are the model children, Miss Fuller."
They were undoubtedly very satisfactory to Miss Fuller, who partook
largely of the educational views of that time, and who loved to tell
anecdotes of this family. One of the sisters writes in her diary: "She
_said_ prayers; but I think my resolutions to be good are prayers."
In 1841 Colonel May, Mrs. Alcott's father, died and left her a small
amount of property. Mrs. Alcott decided to purchase with this a house
in Concord, and the addition of five hundred dollars from Mr. Emerson,
who was always the good Providence of the family, enabled her in 1845
to buy the place in Concord known as Hillside. This house is on the
road to Lexington, about one third of a mile from Mr. Emerson's home.
It was afterward occupied by Mr. Hawthorne.
In this house the girlish life of Louisa was passed, which she has
represented so fully in "Little Women," and of which she speaks in her
journal as the happiest time of her life. Yet she was not unmindful of
the anxiety of her parents; and the determined purpose to retrieve the
fortunes of the family and to give to her mother the comfort and ease
which she had never known in her married life became the constant
motive of her conduct. It is in the light of this purpose alone that
her character and her subsequent career can be fully understood. She
naturally thought of teaching as her work, and had for a short time a
little school in the barn for Mr. Emerson's children and others.
It was indeed a great comfort to be sure of the house over their
heads, but there were still six mouths to be fed, six bodies to be
clothed, and four young, eager minds to be educated. Concord offered
very little opportunity for such work as either Mr. or Mrs. Alcott
could do, and at last even the mother's brave heart broke down. She
was painfully anxious about the support of her household. A friend
passing through Concord called upon her, and Mrs. Alcott could not
hide the traces of tears on her face. "Abby Alcott, what does this
mean?" said the visitor, with determined kindness. The poor mother
opened her heart to her friend, and told the story of their privations
and sufferings.
