     YOUR MOTHER.
     BEACH STREET, BOSTON, 1839.
_From her Mother._
     COTTAGE IN CONCORD.
   DEAR DAUGHTER,--Your tenth birthday has arrived. May it be a
   happy one, and on each returning birthday may you feel new
   strength and resolution to be gentle with sisters, obedient to
   parents, loving to every one, and happy in yourself.
   I give you the pencil-case I promised, for I have observed that
   you are fond of writing, and wish to encourage the habit.
   Go on trying, dear, and each day it will be easier to be and do
   good. You must help yourself, for the cause of your little
   troubles is in yourself; and patience and courage age only will
   make you what mother prays to see you,--her good and happy girl.
     CONCORD, 1843.
   DEAR LOUY,--I enclose a picture for you which I always liked very
   much, for I imagined that you might be just such an industrious
   daughter and I such a feeble but loving mother, looking to your
   labor for my daily bread.
   Keep it for my sake and your own, for you and I always liked to
   be grouped together.
     MOTHER.
   The lines I wrote under the picture in my journal:--
     TO MOTHER.
     I hope that soon, dear mother,
       You and I may be
     In the quiet room my fancy
       Has so often made for thee,--
     The pleasant, sunny chamber,
       The cushioned easy-chair,
     The book laid for your reading,
      The vase of flowers fair;
     The desk beside the window
       Where the sun shines warm and bright:
     And there in ease and quiet
       The promised book you write;
     While I sit close beside you,
       Content at last to see
     That you can rest, dear mother,
       And I can cherish thee.
   [The dream came true, and for the last ten years of her life
   Marmee sat in peace, with every wish granted, even to the
   "grouping together;" for she died in my arms.--L. M. A.]
A passage in Louisa's story of "Little Men" (p. 268) describes one of
their childish plays. They "made believe" their minds were little
round rooms in which the soul lived, and in which good or bad things
were preserved. This play was never forgotten in after life, and the
girls often looked into their little rooms for comfort or guidance in
trial or temptation.
Louisa was very fond of animals, as is abundantly shown in her
stories. She never had the happiness of owning many pets, except cats,
and these were the delight of the household. The children played all
manner of plays with them, tended them in sickness, buried them with
funeral honors, and Louisa has embalmed their memory in the story of
"The Seven Black Cats" in "Aunt Jo's Scrap-Bag."
Dolls were an equal source of pleasure. The imaginative children
hardly recognized them as manufactured articles, but endowed them with
life and feeling. Louisa put her dolls through every experience of
life; they were fed, educated, punished, rewarded, nursed, and even
hung and buried, and then resurrected in her stories. The account of
the "Sacrifice of the Dolls" to the exacting Kitty Mouse in "Little
Men" delights all children by its mixture of pathetic earnestness and
playfulness. It is taken from the experience of another family of
children.
