It was Mr. Brisket scolding because one dinner had been forgotten.
"I told that rascal Beals to be sure and carry it, for the old gentleman
will be in a rage if it does n't come, and take away his custom. Every
boy gone, and I can't leave the store, nor you either, Pat, with all the
clearing up to do."
"Here's a by, sir, slapin illigant forninst the cranberries, bad luck to
him!" answered Pat, with a shake that set poor Tom on his legs, wide
awake at once.
"_Good_ luck to him, you mean.  Here, What's-your-name, you take this
basket to that number, and I 'll make it worth your while," said Mr.
Brisket, much relieved by this unexpected help.
"All right, sir;" and Tommy trudged off as briskly as his tired legs
would let him, cheering the long cold walk with visions of the turkey
with which his employer might reward him, for there were piles of them,
and Pat was to have one for his family.
His brilliant dreams were disappointed, however, for Mr. Brisket
naturally supposed Tom's father would attend to that part of the dinner,
and generously heaped a basket with vegetables, rosy apples, and a quart
of cranberries.
"There, if you ain't too tired, you can take one more load to that
number, and a merry Christmas to you!" said the stout man, handing over
his gift with the promised dollar.
"Thank you, sir; good-night," answered Tom, shouldering his last load
with a grateful smile, and trying not to look longingly at the poultry;
for he had set his heart on at least a skinny bird as a surprise to Kit.
Sammy's adventures that day had been more varied and his efforts more
successful, as we shall see, in the end, for Sammy was a most engaging
little fellow, and no one could look into his blue eyes without wanting
to pat his curly yellow head with one hand while the other gave him
something.  The cares of life had not lessened his confidence in people;
and only the most abandoned ruffians had the heart to deceive or
disappoint him.  His very tribulations usually led to something
pleasant, and whatever happened, sunshiny Sam came right side up, lucky
and laughing.
Undaunted by the drifts or the cold wind, he marched off with the
remains of the old shovel to seek his fortune, and found it at the third
house where he called.  The first two sidewalks were easy jobs; and he
pocketed his ninepences with a growing conviction that this was his
chosen work.  The third sidewalk was a fine long one, for the house
stood on the corner, and two pavements must be cleared.
"It ought to be fifty cents; but perhaps they won't give me so much, I'm
such a young one. I'll show 'em I can work, though, like a man;" and
Sammy rang the bell with the energy of a telegraph boy.
Before the bell could be answered, a big boy rushed up, exclaiming
roughly, "Get out of this!  I'm going to have the job.  You can't do it.
Start, now, or I'll chuck you into a snow-bank."
