"Don't believe you 'll do it."
"See if I don't; for I _will_ have a good dinner one day in the year."
"Well, it does n't seem right for us to do it. Father ought to take care
of us, and we only buy some presents with the little bit we earn. He
never gives us anything now."  And Tommy scowled at the bedroom door,
with a strong sense of injury struggling with affection in his boyish
heart.
"Hush!" cried Kitty.  "Don't blame him. Mother says we never must forget
he's our father.  I try not to; but when she cries, it's hard to feel as
I ought."  And a sob made the little girl stop short as she poked the
fire to hide the trouble in the face that should have been all smiles.
For a moment the room was very still, as the snow beat on the window,
and the fire-light flickered over the six shabby little boots put up on
the stove hearth to dry.
Tommy's cheerful voice broke the silence, saying stoutly, "Well, if I
've got to work all day, I guess I 'll go to bed early.  Don't fret,
Kit.  We 'll help all we can, and have a good time; see if we don't."
"I 'll go out real early, and shovel like fury. Maybe I 'll get a
dollar.  Would that buy a turkey?" asked Sammy, with the air of a
millionnaire.
"No, dear; one big enough for us would cost two, I 'm afraid.  Perhaps
we 'll have one sent us.  We belong to the church, though folks don't
know how poor we are now, and we can't beg."  And Kitty bustled about,
clearing up, rather exercised in her mind about going and asking for the
much-desired fowl.
Soon all three were fast asleep, and nothing but the whir of the machine
broke the quiet that fell upon the house.  Then from the inner room a
man came and sat over the fire with his head in his hands and his eyes
fixed on the ragged little boots left to dry.  He had heard the
children's talk; and his heart was very heavy as he looked about the
shabby room that used to be so neat and pleasant.  What he thought no
one knows, what he did we shall see by-and-by; but the sorrow and shame
and tender silence of his children worked a miracle that night more
lasting and lovely than the white beauty which the snow wrought upon the
sleeping city.
Bright and early the boys were away to their work; while Kitty sang as
she dressed the little sisters, put the house in order, and made her
mother smile at the mysterious hints she gave of something splendid
which was going to happen.  Father was gone, and though all rather
dreaded evening, nothing was said; but each worked with a will, feeling
that Christmas should be merry in spite of poverty and care.
All day Tommy lugged fat turkeys, roasts of beef, and every sort of
vegetable for other people's good dinners on the morrow, wondering
meanwhile where his own was coming from. Mr. Brisket had an army of boys
trudging here and there, and was too busy to notice any particular lad
till the hurry was over, and only a few belated buyers remained to be
served.  It was late; but the stores kept open, and though so tired he
could hardly stand, brave Tommy held on when the other boys left, hoping
to earn a trifle more by extra work.  He sat down on a barrel to rest
during a leisure moment, and presently his weary head nodded sideways
into a basket of cranberries, where he slept quietly till the sound of
gruff voices roused him.
