"There don't seem to be any wreaths at these windows; perhaps they 'd
buy mine.  I can't bear to go home with so little for my share," she
said, stopping before one of the biggest and brightest of these fairy
palaces, where the sound of music was heard, and many little heads
peeped from behind the curtains as if watching for some one.
Kitty was just going up the steps to make another trial, when two small
boys came racing round the corner, slipped on the icy pavement, and both
went down with a crash that would have broken older bones.  One was up
in a minute, laughing; the other lay squirming and howling, "Oh, my
knee! my knee!" till Kitty ran and picked him up with the motherly
consolations she had learned to give.
"It's broken; I know it is," wailed the small sufferer as Kitty carried
him up the steps, while his friend wildly rang the doorbell.
It was like going into fairy-land, for the house was all astir with a
children's Christmas party. Servants flew about with smiling faces; open
doors gave ravishing glimpses of a feast in one room and a splendid tree
in another; while a crowd of little faces peered over the balusters in
the hall above, eager to come down and enjoy the glories prepared for
them.
A pretty young girl came to meet Kitty, and listened to her story of the
accident, which proved to be less severe than it at first appeared; for
Bertie, the injured party, forgot his anguish at sight of the tree, and
hopped upstairs so nimbly that every one laughed.
"He said his leg was broken, but I guess he's all right," said Kitty,
reluctantly turning from this happy scene to go out into the night
again.
"Would you like to see our tree before the children come down?" asked
the pretty girl, seeing the wistful look in the child's eyes, and the
shine of half-dried tears on her cheek.
"Oh, yes; I never saw anything so lovely. I 'd like to tell the babies
all about it;" and Kitty's face beamed at the prospect, as if the kind
words had melted all the frost away.
"How many babies are there?" asked the pretty girl, as she led the way
into the brilliant room.  Kitty told her, adding several other facts,
for the friendly atmosphere seemed to make them friends at once.
"I will buy the wreaths, for we have n't any," said the girl in silk, as
Kitty told how she was just coming to offer them when the boys fell.
It was pretty to see how carefully the little hostess laid away the
shabby garlands and slipped a half-dollar into Kitty's hand; prettier
still, to watch the sly way in which she tucked some bonbons, a red
ball, a blue whip, two china dolls, two pairs of little mittens, and
some gilded nuts into an empty box for "the babies;" and prettiest of
all, to see the smiles and tears make April in Kitty's face as she tried
to tell her thanks for this beautiful surprise.
