"I couldn't help givin' a peek tew the will, and there I see not
Hiram Flint, nor Josiah Flint, but Bewlah Flint, wrote every which
way, but as plain as the nose on yer face. 'It won't make no odds
dear,' whispered my wife, peekin' over my shoulder. 'Guess it
won't!' sez I, aout laoud; 'I'm glad on't, and it ain't a cent
more'n yeou derserve.'
"That pleased aunt. 'Riz me, Hiram,' sez she; an' when I'd got her
easy, she put her old arms raound my neck, an' tried to say, 'God
bless you, dear--,' but died a doin' of it; an' I ain't ashamed tew
say I boo-hooed real hearty, when I laid her daown, fer she was
dreadf'l good tew me, an' I don't forgit her in a hurry."
"How's Bewlah?" asked Dick, after the little tribute of respect all
paid to Aunt Siloam's memory, by a momentary silence.
"Fust-rate! that harum scarum venter er mine was the best I ever
made. She's done waal by me, hes Bewlah; ben a grand good
haousekeeper, kin kerry on the farm better'n me, any time, an' is as
dutif'l an' lovin' a wife as,--waal as annything that _is_ extra
dutif'l and lovin'."
"Got any boys to brag of?"
"We don't think much o' boys daown aour way; they're 'mazin resky
stock to fetch up,--alluz breakin' baounds, gittin' intew the
paound, and wurry your life aout somehaow 'nother. Gals naow doos
waal; I got six o' the likeliest the is goin', every one on 'em is
the very moral of Bewlah,--red hair, black eyes, quiet ways, an' a
mold side the nose. Baby's ain't growed yet; but I expect tew see it
in a consid'able state o' forrardness, when I git hum, an' wouldn't
miss it fer the world."
The droll expressions of Flint's face, and the satisfied twang of
his last words, were irresistable. Dick and Phil went off into a
shout of laughter; and even Thorn's grave lips relapsed into a smile
at the vision of six little Flints with their six little moles. As
if the act were an established ceremony, the "paternal head"
produced his pocket-book, selected a worn, black and white paper,
which he spread in his broad palm, and displayed with the air of a
connoisseur.
"There, thets Bewlah! we call it a cuttin'; but the proper name's a
silly-hoot I b'leeve. I've got a harnsome big degarrytype tew hum
but the heft on't makes it bad tew kerry raound, so I took this. I
don't tote it abaout inside my shirt as some dew,--it aint my way;
but I keep it in my puss long with my other valleu'bles, and guess I
set as much stoxe by it as ef it was all painted up, and done off to
keell."
The "silly-hoot" was examined with interest, and carefully stowed
away again in the old brown wallet which was settled in its place
with a satisfied slap, then Flint said briskly,--
"Naouw, Phil, yeou close this interestin' and instructive meeting;
and be spry, fer time's most up."
