"I can run still: and I'll get to the gate before you; see if I
don't;" and, yielding to the impulse of the moment, Rose darted down
the steps before astonished Jamie could mount and follow.
He was off in a moment: but Rose had the start; and, though old
Sheltie did his best, she reached the goal just ahead, and stood there
laughing and panting, all rosy with the fresh October air, a pretty
picture for several gentlemen who were driving by.
"Good for you, Rose!" said Archie, jumping out to shake hands, while
Will and Geordie saluted, and Uncle Mac laughed at Jamie, who looked
as if girls had risen slightly in his opinion.
"I'm glad it is you, because you won't be shocked. But I'm so happy to
be back I forgot I was not little Rose still," said Atalanta,
smoothing down her flying hair.
"You look very like her, with the curls on your shoulders in the old
way. I missed them last night, and wondered what it was. How is uncle
and Phebe?" asked Archie, whose eyes had been looking over Rose's head
while he spoke toward the piazza, where a female figure was visible
among the reddening woodbines.
"All well, thanks. Won't you come up and see for yourselves?"
"Can't, my dear, can't possibly. Business, you know, business. This
fellow is my right-hand man, and I can't spare him a minute. Come,
Arch, we must be off, or these boys will miss their train," answered
Uncle Mac, pulling out his watch.
With a last look from the light-haired figure at the gate to the
dark-haired one among the vines, Archie drove away, and Jamie cantered
after, consoling himself for his defeat with apple number two.
Rose lingered a moment, feeling much inclined to continue her run, and
pop in upon all the aunts in succession; but, remembering her
uncovered head, was about to turn back, when a cheerful "Ahoy! ahoy!"
made her look up, to see Mac approaching at a great pace, waving his
hat as he came.
"The Campbells are coming thick and fast this morning, and the more
the merrier," she said, running to meet him. "You look like a good boy
going to school, and virtuously conning your lesson by the way," she
added, smiling to see him take his finger out of the book he had
evidently been reading, and tuck it under his arm, just as he used to
do years ago.
"I _am_ a school-boy going to the school I like best," he answered,
waving a plumy spray of asters, as if pointing out the lovely autumn
world about them, full of gay hues, fresh airs, and mellow sunshine.
"That reminds me that I didn't get a chance to hear much about your
plans last night: the other boys all talked at once, and you only got
in a word now and then. What have you decided to be, Mac?" asked Rose,
as they went up the avenue side by side.
