"How do you do, Miss Bliss?"
"Glad to see you back, Miss Moore," answered Annabel, shaking hands in
a way that settled the question of Phebe's place in _her_ mind for
ever; for the stout damsel had a kind heart in spite of a weak head,
and was really fond of Rose. It was evidently, "Love me, love my
Phebe;" so she made up her mind on the spot that Phebe _was_ somebody,
and that gave an air of romance even to the poor-house.
She could not help staring a little, as she watched the two friends
work together, and listened to their happy talk over each new treasure
as it came to light; for every look and word plainly showed that years
of close companionship had made them very dear to one another. It was
pretty to see Rose try to do the hardest part of any little job
herself: still prettier to see Phebe circumvent her, and untie the
hard knots, fold the stiff papers, or lift the heavy trays with her
own strong hands; and prettiest of all to hear her say in a motherly
tone, as she put Rose into an easy chair,--
"Now, my deary, sit and rest; for you will have to see company all
day, and I can't let you get tired out so early."
"That is no reason why I should let you either. Call Jane to help or
I'll bob up again directly," answered Rose, with a very bad
assumption of authority.
"Jane may take my place downstairs; but no one shall wait on you here
except me, as long as I'm with you," said stately Phebe, stooping to
put a hassock under the feet of her little mistress.
"It is very nice and pretty to see; but I don't know what people
_will_ say when she goes into society with the rest of us. I do hope
Rose won't be _very_ odd," said Annabel to herself as she went away to
circulate the depressing news that there was to be no grand ball; and,
saddest disappointment of all, that Rose had not a single Paris
costume with which to refresh the eyes and rouse the envy of her
amiable friends.
"Now I've seen or heard from all the boys but Charlie, and I suppose
he is too busy. I wonder what he is about," thought Rose, turning from
the hall door, whither she had courteously accompanied her guest.
The wish was granted a moment after; for, going into the parlor to
decide where some of her pictures should hang, she saw a pair of boots
at one end of the sofa, a tawny-brown head at the other, and
discovered that Charlie was busily occupied in doing nothing.
"The voice of the Bliss was heard in the land, so I dodged till she
went upstairs, and then took a brief _siesta_ while waiting to pay my
respects to the distinguished traveller, Lady Hester Stanhope," he
said, leaping up to make his best bow.
