"Yours is certainly the pleasantest: and yet I never heard of any good
deed he did, except divide his cloak with a beggar; while my St.
Francis gave himself to charity just when life was most tempting, and
spent years working for God without reward. He's old and poor, and in
a dreadful place, but I won't give him up; and you may have your gay
St. Martin, if you want him."
"No, thank you; saints are not in my line: but I'd like the
golden-haired angel in the blue gown, if you'll let me have her. She
shall be my little Madonna, and I'll pray to her like a good
Catholic," answered Charlie, turning to the delicate, deep-eyed
figure, with the lilies in its hand.
"With all my heart, and any others that you like. Choose some for
your mother, and give them to her with my love."
So Charlie sat down beside Rose to turn and talk over the pictures for
a long and pleasant hour. But when they went away to lunch, if there
had been any one to observe so small but significant a trifle, good
St. Francis lay face downward behind the sofa, while gallant St.
Martin stood erect upon the chimney-piece.
CHAPTER III.
_MISS CAMPBELL._
While the travellers unpack their trunks, we will pick up, as briefly
as possible, the dropped stitches in the little romance we are
weaving.
Rose's life had been a very busy and quiet one for the four years
following the May-day when she made her choice. Study, exercise,
house-work, and many wholesome pleasures, kept her a happy, hearty
creature, yearly growing in womanly graces, yet always preserving the
innocent freshness girls lose so soon when too early sent upon the
world's stage, and given a part to play.
Not a remarkably gifted girl in any way, and far from perfect; full of
all manner of youthful whims and fancies; a little spoiled by much
love; rather apt to think all lives as safe and sweet as her own; and,
when want or pain appealed to her, the tender heart overflowed with a
remorseful charity, which gave of its abundance recklessly. Yet, with
all her human imperfections, the upright nature of the child kept her
desires climbing toward the just and pure and true, as flowers
struggle to the light; and the woman's soul was budding beautifully
under the green leaves behind the little thorns.
At seventeen, Dr. Alec pronounced her ready for the voyage round the
world, which he considered a better finishing off than any school
could give her. But just then Aunt Peace began to fail, and soon
slipped quietly away to rejoin the lover she had waited for so long.
Youth seemed to come back in a mysterious way to touch the dead face
with lost loveliness, and all the romance of her past to gather round
her memory. Unlike most aged women, her friends were among the young;
and, at her funeral, the gray heads gave place to the band of loving
girls who made the sweet old maiden ready for her rest, bore her pall,
and covered her grave with the white flowers she had never worn.
