"You darling creature, I'm _so_ glad to get you back! I know it's
shamefully early; but I really couldn't keep away another minute. Let
me help you: I'm dying to see all your splendid things; for I saw the
trunks pass, and I know you've quantities of treasures," cried
Annabel Bliss, all in one breath as she embraced Rose an hour later,
and glanced about the room bestrewn with a variety of agreeable
objects.
"How well you are looking! Sit down and I'll show you my lovely
photographs. Uncle chose all the best for me, and it's a treat to see
them," answered Rose, putting a roll on the table and looking about
for more.
"Oh, thanks! I haven't time now: one needs hours to study such things.
Show me your Paris dresses, there's a dear: I'm perfectly aching to
see the last styles," and Annabel cast a hungry eye toward certain
large boxes delightfully suggestive of French finery.
"I haven't got any," said Rose, fondly surveying the fine photographs
as she laid them away.
"Rose Campbell! you don't mean to say that you didn't get one Paris
dress at least?" cried Annabel, scandalized at the bare idea of such
neglect.
"Not one for myself: Aunt Clara ordered several, and will be charmed
to show them when her box comes."
"Such a chance! right there and plenty of money! How _could_ you love
your uncle after such cruelty?" sighed Annabel, with a face full of
sympathy.
Rose looked puzzled for a minute, then seemed to understand, and
assumed a superior air which became her very well, as she said,
good-naturedly opening a box of laces, "Uncle did not forbid my doing
it, and I had money enough; but I chose not to spend it on things of
that sort."
"Could and didn't! I can't believe it!" And Annabel sunk into a chair,
as if the thought was too much for her.
"I did rather want to at first, just for the fun of the thing; in
fact, I went and looked at some amazing gowns. But they were very
expensive, very much trimmed, and not my style at all; so I gave them
up, and kept what I valued more than all the gowns Worth ever made."
"What in the world was it?" cried Annabel, hoping she would say
diamonds.
"Uncle's good opinion," answered Rose, looking thoughtfully into the
depths of a packing case, where lay the lovely picture that would
always remind her of the little triumph over girlish vanity, which not
only kept but increased "Uncle's good opinion."
"Oh, indeed!" said Annabel, blankly, and fell to examining Aunt
Plenty's lace; while Rose went on with a happy smile in her eyes as
she dived into another trunk.
"Uncle thinks one has no right to waste money on such things; but he
is very generous, and loves to give useful, beautiful, or curious
gifts. See, all these pretty ornaments are for presents; and you shall
choose first whatever you like."
