It was evident that Rose was in earnest now; for, as she spoke, she
turned to her friend with such respect as well as love in her face
that the look told better than any words how heartily the rich girl
appreciated the virtues hard experience had given the poor girl, and
how eagerly she desired to earn what all her fortune could not buy for
her.
Something in the glance exchanged between the friends impressed the
young men in spite of their prejudices; and it was in a perfectly
serious tone that Archie said,--
"I fancy you'll find your hands full, cousin, if you want work; for
I've heard people say that wealth has its troubles and trials as well
as poverty."
"I know it, and I'm going to try and fill my place well. I've got some
capital little plans all made, and have begun to study my profession
already," answered Rose, with an energetic nod.
"Could I ask what it is to be?" inquired Charlie, in a tone of awe.
"Guess!" and Rose looked up at him with an expression half-earnest,
half-merry.
"Well, I should say that you were fitted for a beauty and a belle;
but, as that is evidently not to your taste, I am afraid you are going
to study medicine and be a doctor. Won't your patients have a heavenly
time though? It will be easy dying with an angel to poison them."
"Now, Charlie, that's base of you, when you know how well women have
succeeded in this profession, and what a comfort Dr. Mary Kirk was to
dear Aunt Peace. I did want to study medicine; but uncle thought it
wouldn't do to have so many M.D.'s in one family, since Mac thinks of
trying it. Besides, I seem to have other work put into my hands that I
am better fitted for."
"You are fitted for any thing that is generous and good; and I'll
stand by you, no matter what you've chosen," cried Mac heartily; for
this was a new style of talk from a girl's lips, and he liked it
immensely.
"Philanthropy is a generous, good, and beautiful profession; and I've
chosen it for mine because I have much to give. I'm only the steward
of the fortune papa left me; and I think, if I use it wisely for the
happiness of others, it will be more blest than if I keep it all for
myself."
Very sweetly and simply was this said, but it was curious to see how
differently the various hearers received it.
Charlie shot a quick look at his mother, who exclaimed, as if in spite
of herself,--
"Now, Alec, _are_ you going to let that girl squander a fine fortune
on all sorts of charitable nonsense and wild schemes, for the
prevention of pauperism and crime?"
"'They who give to the poor lend to the Lord,' and practical
Christianity is the kind He loves the best," was all Dr. Alec
answered; but it silenced the aunts, and caused even prudent Uncle Mac
to think with sudden satisfaction of certain secret investments he
had made, which paid him no interest but the thanks of the poor.
