"I'll keep my eye on you upon one condition," replied the youthful
Mentor.
"Name it."
"If you are going to have a lot of lovers round, I wash my hands of
you. If not, I'm your man."
"You must be sheep-dog, and help keep them away; for I don't want any
yet awhile; and, between ourselves, I don't believe I shall have any
if it is known that I am strong-minded. That fact will scare most men
away like a yellow flag," said Rose: for, thanks to Dr. Alec's
guardianship, she had wasted neither heart nor time in the foolish
flirtations so many girls fritter away their youth upon.
"Hum! I rather doubt that," muttered Mac, as he surveyed the damsel
before him.
She certainly did not look unpleasantly strong-minded, for she _was_
beautiful in spite of her modest denials. Beautiful with the truest
sort of beauty; for nobility of character lent its subtle charm to the
bloom of youth, the freshness of health, the innocence of a nature
whose sweet maidenliness Mac felt but could not describe. Gentle yet
full of spirit, and all aglow with the earnestness that suggests
lovely possibilities, and makes one hope that such human flowers may
have heaven's purest air and warmest sunshine to blossom in.
"Wait and see," answered Rose; then, as her uncle's voice was heard in
the hall, she held out her hand, adding pleasantly, "The old times are
to begin again, so come soon and tell me all your doings, and help me
with mine just as you used to do."
"You really mean it?" and Mac looked much pleased.
"I really do. You are so little altered, except to grow big, that I
don't feel at all strange with you, and want to begin where we left
off."
"That will be capital. Good-night, cousin," and to her great amazement
he gave her a hearty kiss.
"Oh, but that is not the old way at all!" cried Rose, stepping back in
merry confusion; while the audacious youth assumed an air of mild
surprise, as he innocently asked,--
"Didn't we always say good-night in that way? I had an impression that
we did, and were to begin just as we left off."
"Of course not; no power on earth would have bribed you to do it, as
you know well enough. I don't mind the first night, but we are too old
for that sort of thing now."
"I'll remember. It was the force of habit, I suppose; for I'm sure I
must have done it in former times, it seemed so natural. Coming,
father!" and Mac retired, evidently convinced that he was right.
"Dear old thing! he is as much a boy as ever, and that is such a
comfort; for some of the others have grown up very fast," said Rose to
herself, recalling Charlie's sentimental airs, and Archie's beatified
expression while Phebe sang.
CHAPTER II.
_OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES._
"It is _so_ good to be at home again! I wonder how we ever made up our
minds to go away!" exclaimed Rose, as she went roaming about the old
house next morning, full of the satisfaction one feels at revisiting
familiar nooks and corners, and finding them unchanged.
