"A man first, and a good one if possible; after that, what God
pleases."
Something in the tone, as well as the words, made Rose look up quickly
into Mac's face, to see a new expression there. It was indescribable;
but she felt as she had often done when watching the mists part
suddenly, giving glimpses of some mountain-top, shining serene and
high against the blue.
"I think you _will_ be something splendid; for you really look quite
glorified, walking under this arch of yellow leaves with the sunshine
on your face," she exclaimed, conscious of a sudden admiration never
felt before; for Mac was the plainest of all the cousins.
"I don't know about that; but I have my dreams and aspirations, and
some of them are pretty high ones. Aim at the best, you know, and keep
climbing if you want to get on," he said, looking at the asters with
an inward sort of smile, as if he and they had some sweet secret
between them.
"You are queerer than ever. But I like your ambition, and hope you
will get on. Only mustn't you begin at something soon? I fancied you
would study medicine with uncle: that used to be our plan, you know."
"I shall, for the present at least, because I quite agree with you
that it is necessary to have an anchor somewhere, and not go floating
off into the world of imagination without ballast of the right sort.
Uncle and I had some talk about it last night, and I'm going up to
begin as soon as possible; for I've mooned long enough," and giving
himself a shake, Mac threw down the pretty spray, adding half aloud,--
    "Chide me not, laborious band,
      For the idle flowers I brought:
    Every aster in my hand
      Goes home laden with a thought."
Rose caught the words and smiled, thinking to herself, "Oh, that's it:
he is getting into the sentimental age, and Aunt Jane has been
lecturing him. Dear me, how we _are_ growing up!"
"You look as if you didn't like the prospect very well," she said
aloud; for Mac had rammed the volume of Shelley into his pocket, and
the glorified expression was so entirely gone Rose fancied that she
had been mistaken about the mountain-top behind the mists.
"Yes, well enough: I always thought the profession a grand one; and
where could I find a better teacher than uncle? I've got into lazy
ways lately, and it is high time I went at something useful; so here I
go," and Mac abruptly vanished into the study, while Rose joined Phebe
in Aunt Plenty's room.
The dear old lady had just decided, after long and earnest discussion,
which of six favorite puddings should be served for dinner, and thus
had a few moments to devote to sentiment; so, when Rose came in, she
held out her arms, saying fondly,--
"I shall not feel as if I'd got my child back again, until I have her
in my lap a minute. No, you're not a bit too heavy; my rheumatism
doesn't begin much before November: so sit here, darling, and put your
two arms round my neck."
