"What shall you wear at this new sort of party of yours?" asked Annabel,
wisely turning a deaf ear to all delicate or dangerous topics and
keeping to matters she understood.
"That white thing over there. It is fresh and pretty, and Phebe has one
like it. I never want to dress more than she does, and gowns of that
sort are always most becoming and appropriate to girls of our age."
"Phebe! You don't mean to say you are going to make a lady of her!"
gasped Annabel, upsetting her treasures as she fell back with a gesture
that made the little chair creak again, for Miss Bliss was as plump as a
partridge.
"She is one already, and anybody who slights her slights me, for she is
the best girl I know and the dearest," cried Rose warmly.
"Yes, of course I was only surprised you are quite right, for she may
turn out to be somebody, and then how glad you'll feel that you were so
good to her!" said Annabel, veering around at once, seeing which way the
wind blew.
Before Rose could speak again, a cheery voice called from the hall,
"Little mistress, where are you?"
"In my room, Phebe, dear," and up came the girl Rose was going to "make
a lady of," looking so like one that Annabel opened her china-blue eyes
and smiled involuntarily as Phebe dropped a little curtsey in playful
imitation of her old manner and said quietly: "How do you do, Miss
Bliss?"
"Glad to see you back, Miss Moore," answered Annabel, shaking hands in a
way that settled the question of Phebe's place in her mind forever, for
the stout damsel had a kind heart in spite of a weak head and was really
fond of Rose. It was evidently "Love me, love my Phebe," so she made up
her mind on the spot that Phebe was somebody, and that gave an air of
romance even to the poorhouse.
She could not help staring a little as she watched the two friends work
together and listened to their happy talk over each new treasure as
it came to light, for every look and word plainly showed that years
of close companionship had made them very dear to one another. It was
pretty to see Rose try to do the hardest part of any little job herself
still prettier to see Phebe circumvent her and untie the hard knots,
fold the stiff papers, or lift the heavy trays with her own strong
hands, and prettiest of all to hear her say in a motherly tone, as she
put Rose into an easy chair: "Now, my deary, sit and rest, for you
will have to see company all day, and I can't let you get tired out so
early."
"That is no reason why I should let you either. Call Jane to help or
I'll bob up again directly," answered Rose, with a very bad assumption
of authority.
"Jane may take my place downstairs, but no one shall wait on you here
except me, as long as I'm with you," said stately Phebe, stooping to put
a hassock under the feet of her little mistress.
