On rare occasions the beast would bolt into the ditch as a vehicle drew
near; but usually he paused abruptly, put his head down, and apparently
went to sleep.
Matilda got on better, because little Bernard Du Guesclin, as she named
her mouse, was so very small, that she could take him up, and turn him
round bodily, when other means failed, or pull him half into the chair
if danger threatened in front. He was a sprightly little fellow, and had
not yet lost all the ardour of youth, or developed the fiendish
obstinacy of his kind; so he frequently ran little races--now and then
pranced, and was not quite dead to the emotion of gratitude in return
for bits of bread.
Truly, yes; the fair Mat with her five feet seven inches, and little
Bernard, whose longest ear, when most erect, did not reach much above
her waist, were a sweet pair of friends, and caused her mates great
amusement.
'I must have some one to play with, for I can't improve my mind _all_
the time as 'Mandy does, or cuddle and doze like Livy. I've had
experience with young donkeys of all sorts, and I give you my word
little Bernie is much better fun than some I've known with shorter ears
and fewer legs.'
Thus Matilda, regardless of the jeers of her friends, when they
proposed having the small beast into the _salon_ to beguile the tedium
of a rainy day.
As the summer came on, picnics were introduced, and gay parties would
pile into and on to Flabeau's small omnibus, and drive off to Hunandaye,
Coetquen, La Belliere, Guingamp, or some other unpronounceable but most
charming spot, for a day of sunshine and merrymaking.
The hospitable English came out strong on these occasions, with ''ampers
of 'am-sandwiches, bottled porter and so on, don't you know?' all in
fine style. Even the stout doctor donned his knickerbockers and grey
hose, unfurled his Japanese umbrella, and, with a pretty niece on either
arm, disported himself like a boy.
But pleasantest of all were the daily strolls through the little town
and its environs, getting glimpses of Breton manners and customs.
The houses were usually composed of one room, where, near the open fire,
and fixed against the wall, stands the bedstead or _lit clos_, of old
oak, shut in by carved sliding panels, often bearing an inscription or
some sacred symbol. The mattresses and feather-beds are so piled up,
that there is hardly room to creep in. Before it is the big chest
containing the family wardrobe, answering the double purpose of a seat
and a step by which to ascend the lofty bed. Cupboards on each side
often have wide shelves, where the children sleep. Settles and a long
table complete the furniture; the latter often has little wells hollowed
out in the top to hold the soup instead of plates. Over the table,
suspended by pulleys, are two indispensable articles in a Breton
house,--a large round basket to cover the bread, and a wooden frame to
hold the spoons. Festoons of sausages, hams, candles, onions,
horse-shoes, harness, and tools, all hang from the ceiling. The floor is
of beaten earth. One narrow window lets in the light. There are no
out-houses, and pigs and poultry mingle freely with the family.
