"At what?" asked her companion, lazily swinging in a hammock.
"The difference in those two greetings. It's perfectly disgraceful!" was
the petulant reply.
"I didn't see any thing. Do tell me about it," said Clara, opening her
drowsy eyes with sudden interest.
"Why, young Barlow was lounging up the walk, and met pretty Miss Ellery.
Off went his hat; he gave her a fine bow, a gracious smile, a worn-out
compliment, and then dawdled on again. The next minute Joe King came
along. Instantly Barlow woke up, laughed out like a pleased boy, gave
him a hearty grip of the hand, a cordial 'How are you, old fellow? I'm
no end glad to see you!' and, linking arms, the two tramped off, quite
beaming with satisfaction."
"But, child, King is Barlow's best friend; Kitty Ellery only an
acquaintance. Besides, it wouldn't do to greet a woman like a man."
"Yes, it would, especially in this case; for Barlow adores Kate, and
might, at least, treat her to something better than the nonsense he
gives other girls. But, no, it's proper to simper and compliment; and
he'll do it till his love gets the better of 'prunes and prisms,' and
makes him sincere and earnest."
"This is a new whim of yours. You surely wouldn't like to have any man
call out 'How are you, Anna?' slap you on the shoulder, and nearly shake
your hand off, as Barlow did King's, just now," said Clara, laughing at
her friend.
"Yes, I would," answered Anna, perversely, "if he really meant it to
express affection or pleasure. A good grip of the hand and a plain,
hearty word would please me infinitely better than all the servile
bowing down and sweet nonsense I've had lately. I'm not a fool; then,
why am I treated like one?" she continued, knitting her handsome brows
and pacing to and fro like an angry leopardess. "Why don't men treat me
like a reasonable being?--talk sense to me, give me their best ideas,
tell me their plans and ambitions, let me enjoy the real man in them,
and know what they honestly are? I don't want to be a goddess stuck up
on a pedestal. I want to be a woman down among them, to help and be
helped by our acquaintance."
"It wouldn't do, I fancy. They wouldn't like it, and would tell you to
keep to your own sex."
"But my own sex don't interest or help me one bit. Women have no hope
but to be married, and that is soon told; no ideas but dress and show,
and I'm tired to death of both; no ambition but to outshine their
neighbors, and I despise that."
"Thank you, love," blandly murmured Clara.
"It is true, and you know it. There _are_ sensible women; but not in my
set. And I don't seem to find them. I've tried the life set down for
girls like me, and for three years I've lived and enjoyed it. Now I'm
tired of it. I want something better, and I mean to have it. Men _will_
follow, admire, flatter, and love me; for I please them and they enjoy
my society. Very well. Then it's fair that I should enjoy theirs. And I
should if they would let me. It's perfectly maddening to have flocks of
brave, bright fellows round me, full of every thing that is attractive,
strong, and helpful, yet not be able to get at it, because society
ordains twaddle between us, instead of sensible conversation and sincere
manners."
