"I needn't sigh now over other girls' pretty dresses, as I did last
year;" and Portia plumed herself like a swan, as she settled Charley's
roses in her bosom.
"And I needn't wonder who Phil will take," added Pris, stopping, with
her glove half on, to look at the little ring back again from its long
banishment in somebody's waistcoat pocket.
Never had the hall looked so elegant and gay, for it was charmingly
decorated; couches were provided for the elders, mirrors for the
beauties, and music of the best sounded from behind a thicket of shrubs
and flowers. Every one seemed in unusually good spirits; the girls
looked their loveliest, and the young men were models of propriety;
though a close observer might have detected a suspicious twinkle in the
eyes of the most audacious, as if they plotted some new joke.
The girls saw it, were on the watch, and thought the secret was out when
they discovered that the gentlemen of their set all wore tiny pitchers,
hanging like orders from the knots of sweet-peas in their button-holes.
But, bless their innocent hearts! that was only a ruse, and they were
taken entirely by surprise when, just before supper, the band struck up,
     "Drink to me only with thine eyes;"
and every one looked smilingly at the three girls who were standing
together near the middle of the hall.
They looked about them in pretty confusion, but in a moment beheld a
spectacle that made them forget themselves; for the Judge, in an
impressive white waistcoat, marched into the circle gathered about them,
made a splendid bow, and said, with a smile that put the gas to shame,--
"Young ladies! I am desired by the gentlemen now present to beg your
acceptance of a slight token of their gratitude, respect, and penitence.
As the first man who joined the society which has proved a blessing to
our town, Mr. William Snow will now have the honor of presenting the
gift."
Then appeared Mr. William Snow, looking as proud as a peacock; and well
he might, for on the salver which he bore stood a stately silver
pitcher. A graceful little Hebe danced upon the handle, three names
shone along the fretted brim, and three white lilies rose from the
slender vase,--fit emblems of the maiden founders of the league.
Arriving before them, Master Will nearly upset the equilibrium of his
precious burden in attempting to make a bow equal to the Judge's; but
recovered himself gallantly, and delivered the following remarkable
poem, which the public was expected to believe an emanation of his own
genius:--
    "Hebe poured the nectar forth
        When gods of old were jolly,
    But graces three _our_ goblets fill,
        Fair Portia, Pris and Polly.
    Their draughts make every man who tastes
        Happier, better, richer;
    So here we vow ourselves henceforth
        Knights of the Silver Pitcher."
ANNA'S WHIM.
"Now just look at that!" cried a young lady, pausing suddenly in her
restless march to and fro on one of the wide piazzas of a seaside hotel.
