"What temptation? This?" asked her father, turning her half-averted face
to the light, with a smile full of paternal pride.
"No, sir; a far more dangerous one than ever I can be."
"Then I should like to see it!" and the old gentleman looked about him
for this rival of his lovely daughter.
"It is these," she said, pointing to the bottles and glasses on the
side-board.
The Judge understood her then, and knit his brows but before he could
reply Portia went steadily on, though her cheeks burned, and her eyes
were bent upon the fire again.
"Father, I belong to a society of three, and we have promised to do all
we can for temperance. As yet I can only show bravely the faith that is
in me; therefore I can never offer any friend of mine a drop of wine,
and so I do not ask them here, where it would seem most uncourteous to
refuse."
"I trust no gentleman ever had cause to reproach me for the hospitality
I was taught to show my guests," began the Judge, in his most stately
manner.
But he got no further, for a soft hand touched his lips, and Portia
answered sorrowfully,--
"One man has, sir; Charley Lord says the first time he took too much was
in this house, and it has grieved me to the heart, for it is true. O
papa, never let any one have the right to say that again of us! Forgive
me if I seem undutiful, but I _must_ speak out, for I want my dear
father to stand on my side, and set an example which will make me even
fonder and prouder of him than I am now."
As Portia paused, half frightened at her own frankness, she put her arms
about his neck, and hid her face on his breast, still pleading her cause
with the silent eloquence so hard to resist.
The Judge made no reply for several minutes, and in that pause many
thoughts passed through his mind, and a vague suspicion that had haunted
him of late became a firm conviction. For suddenly he seemed to see his
own weakness in its true light, to understand the meaning of the
watchful love, the patient care that had so silently and helpfully
surrounded him; and in Portia's appeal for younger men, he read a tender
warning to himself.
He was a proud man, but a very just one; and though a flush of anger
swept across his face at first, he acknowledged the truth of the words
that were so hard to speak.
With his hand laid fondly on the head that was half-hidden, lest a look
should seem to reproach him, this brave old gentleman proved that he
loved his neighbor better than himself, and honestly confessed his own
shortcomings.
"No man shall ever say again that _I_ tempted him."
Then as Portia lifted up a happy face, he looked straight into the
grateful eyes that dimmed with sudden tears, and added tenderly,--
