"Here, Johnny, is some splendid lint for this poor arm, and some of the
softest compresses for Carrol's wound. He is asleep, so I'll begin with
you, and while I work I'll amuse you with the story of the old
table-cloth this lint came from," said Nurse Hunt, as she stood by the
bed where the thin, white face smiled at her, though the boy dreaded the
hard quarter of an hour he had to endure every day.
"Thanky, mum. We 'aven't 'ad a story for a good bit. I'm 'arty this
mornin', and think I'll be hup by this day week, won't I?"
"I hope so. Now shut your eyes and listen; then you wont mind the
twinges I give you, gentle as I try to be," answered the nurse,
beginning her painful task.
Then she told the story of Tabby's table-cloth, and the boy enjoyed it
immensely, laughing out at the slapping and the throwing water in the
ensign's face, and openly rejoicing when the red-coats got the worst of
it.
"As we've beaten all the rest of the world, I don't mind our 'aving bad
luck that time. We har' friends now, and I'll fight for you, mum, like a
British bull-dog, if I hever get the chance," said Johnny, when the tale
and dressing were ended.
"So you shall. I like to turn a brave enemy into a faithful friend, as I
hope we shall yet be able to do with our Southern brothers. I admire
their courage and their loyalty to what they believe to be right; and we
are all suffering the punishment we deserve for waiting till this sad
war came, instead of settling the trouble years ago, as we might have
done if we had loved honesty and honor more than money and power."
As she spoke, Miss Hunt turned to her other patient, and saw by the
expression of his face that he had heard both the tale and the talk. He
smiled, and said, "Good morning," as usual, but when she stooped to lay
a compress of the soft, wet damask on the angry wound in his breast, he
whispered, with a grateful look:--
"You _have_ changed one 'Southern brother' from an enemy into a friend.
Whether I live or die, I never can forget how generous and kind you have
all been to me."
"Thank you! It is worth months of anxiety and care to hear such words.
Let us shake hands, and do our best to make North and South as good
friends as England and America now are," said the nurse, offering her
hand.
"Me, too! I've got one 'and left, and I give it ye with all me 'art. God
bless ye, sir, and a lively getting hup for the two of us!" cried
Johnny, stretching across the narrow space that divided the beds, with a
beaming face and true English readiness to forgive a fallen foe when he
had proved a brave one.
The three hands met in a warm shake, and the act was a little lesson
more eloquent than words to the lookers-on; for the spirit of
brotherhood that should bind us all together worked the miracle of
linking these three by the frail threads spun a century ago.
