"Girls come first," answered the boy, with a nod toward the eldest girl
cousin.
Lotty put in her hand and, after some fumbling, drew out a paper on
which was written, "_Tabby's Table-cloth_." "Is that a good one?" she
asked, for Geoff looked disappointed.
"More fighting, though a girl is still the heroine," answered Aunt Nell,
searching for the manuscript.
"I think two revolutions will be enough for you, General," added
grandmamma, laughing.
"Do we beat in both?" asked the boy, brightening up at once.
"Yes."
"All right, then. I vote for 'Dolly's Dish-cloth,' or whatever it is;
though I don't see what it can possibly have to do with war," he added.
"Ah, my dear, women have their part to play as well as men at such
times, and do it bravely, though one does not hear so much about their
courage. I've often wished some one would collect all that can be found
about these neglected heroines, and put it in a book for us to read,
admire, and emulate when our turn comes."
Grandma looked thoughtfully at the fire as she spoke, and Lotty said,
with her eye on the portfolio: "Perhaps Aunt Nell will do it for us.
Then history won't be so dry, and we can glorify our fore-mothers as
well as fathers."
"I'll see what I can find. Now spin away, Minnie, and sit still,
boys,--if you can."
Then, having settled grandma's foot-stool, and turned up the lamp, Aunt
Nell read the tale of
                        TABBY'S TABLE-CLOTH.
On the 20th day of March, 1775, a little girl was trudging along a
country road, with a basket of eggs on her arm. She seemed in a great
hurry, and looked anxiously about her as she went; for those were
stirring times, and Tabitha Tarbell lived in a town that took a famous
part in the Revolution. She was a rosy-faced, bright-eyed lass of
fourteen, full of vigor, courage, and patriotism, and just then much
excited by the frequent rumors which reached Concord that the British
were coming to destroy the stores sent there for safe keeping while the
enemy occupied Boston. Tabby glowed with wrath at the idea, and
(metaphorically speaking) shook her fist at august King George, being a
stanch little Rebel, ready to fight and die for her country rather than
submit to tyranny of any kind.
In nearly every house something valuable was hidden. Colonel Barrett had
six barrels of powder; Ebenezer Hubbard, sixty-eight barrels of flour;
axes, tents, and spades were at Daniel Cray's; and Captain David Brown
had guns, cartridges, and musket balls. Cannon were hidden in the woods;
fire-arms were being manufactured at Barrett's Mills; cartouch-boxes,
belts, and holsters, at Reuben Brown's; saltpetre at Josiah Melvin's;
and much oatmeal was prepared at Captain Timothy Wheeler's. A morning
gun was fired, a guard of ten men patrolled the town at night, and the
brave farmers were making ready for what they felt must come.
There were Tories in the town who gave the enemy all the information
they could gather; therefore much caution was necessary in making plans,
lest these enemies should betray them. Pass-words were adopted, secret
signals used, and messages sent from house to house in all sorts of
queer ways. Such a message lay hidden under the eggs in Tabby's basket,
and the brave little girl was going on an important errand from her
uncle, Captain David Brown, to Deacon Cyrus Hosmer, who lived at the
other end of the town, by the South Bridge. She had been employed
several times before in the same way, and had proved herself
quick-witted, stout-hearted, and light-footed. Now, as she trotted along
in her scarlet cloak and hood, she was wishing she could still further
distinguish herself by some great act of heroism; for good Parson
Emerson had patted her on the head and said, "Well done, child!" when he
heard how she ran all the way to Captain Barrett's, in the night, to
warn him that Doctor Lee, the Tory, had been detected sending
information of certain secret plans to the enemy.
