For a time the hungry gentlemen were too busy eating to talk much; but
when Mrs. Bliss went out, and the flip came in, they were ready for
business. The window was shut, whereat Tabby exulted that she was
inside; the talkers drew closer together, and spoke so low that she
could only catch a sentence now and then, which caused her to pull her
hair with vexation; and they swore a good deal, to the great horror of
the pious little maiden curled up at their feet. But she heard enough to
prove that she was right; for these men were Captain Brown and Ensign De
Bernicre, of the British army, come to learn where the supplies were
stored and how well the town was defended. She heard Mr. Bliss tell them
that some of the "Rebels," as he called his neighbors, had sent him word
that he should not leave the town alive, and he was in much fear for his
life and property. She heard the Englishmen tell him that if he came
with them they would protect him; for they were armed, and three of them
together could surely get safely off, as no one knew the strangers had
arrived but the slip of a girl who showed them the way. Here "the slip
of a girl" nodded her head savagely, and hoped the speaker's ear still
tingled with the buffet she gave it.
Mr. Bliss gladly consented to this plan, and told them he would show
them the road to Lexington, which was a shorter way to Boston than
through Weston and Sudbury, the road they came.
"These people won't fight, will they?" asked Ensign De Bernicre.
"There goes a man who will fight you to the death," answered Mr. Bliss,
pointing to his brother Tom, busy in a distant field.
The Ensign swore again, and gave a stamp that brought his heavy heel
down on poor Tabby's hand, as she leaned forward to catch every word.
The cruel blow nearly forced a cry from her; but she bit her lips and
never stirred, though faint with pain. When she could listen again, Mr.
Bliss was telling all he knew about the hiding places of the powder,
grain, and cannon the enemy wished to capture and destroy. He could not
tell much, for the secrets had been well kept; but if he had known that
our young Rebel was taking notes of his words under his own table, he
might have been less ready to betray his neighbors. No one suspected a
listener, however, and all Tabby could do was to scowl at three pairs of
muddy boots, and wish she were a man that she might fight the wearers of
them.
She very nearly had a chance to fight or fly; for just as they were
preparing to leave the table, a sudden sneeze nearly undid her. She
thought she was lost, and hid her face, expecting to be dragged out--to
instant death, perhaps--by the wrathful men of war.
