They would have been much disgusted at the trick played upon them if
they had seen the sick girl fly out of bed and dance a jig of joy as
they tramped away to Barrett's Mills. But soon Tabby had no heart for
merriment, as she watched the minute-men gather by the bridge, saw the
British march down on the other side, and when their first volley killed
brave Isaac Davis and Abner Hosmer, of Acton, she heard Major Buttrick
give the order, "Fire, fellow-soldiers; for God's sake, fire!"
For a little while shots rang, smoke rose, shouts were heard, and red
and blue coats mingled in the struggle on the bridge. Then the British
fell back, leaving two dead soldiers behind them. These were buried
where they fell; and the bodies of the Acton men were sent home to their
poor wives, Concord's first martyrs for liberty.
No need to tell more of the story of that day; all children know it, and
many have made a pilgrimage to see the old monument set up where the
English fell, and the bronze Minute-Man, standing on his granite
pedestal to mark the spot where the brave Concord farmers fired the shot
that made the old North Bridge immortal.
We must follow Tabby, and tell how she got her table-cloth. When the
fight was over, the dead buried, the wounded cared for, and the
prisoners exchanged, the Tories were punished. Dr. Lee was confined to
his own farm, on penalty of being shot if he left it, and the property
of Daniel Bliss was confiscated by government. Some things were sold at
auction, and Captain Brown bought the fine cloth and gave it to Tabby,
saying heartily:--
"There, my girl, that belongs to you, and you may well be proud of it;
for, thanks to your quick wits and eyes and ears, we were not taken
unawares, but sent the red-coats back faster than they came."
And Tabby _was_ proud of it, keeping it carefully, displaying it with
immense satisfaction whenever she told the story, and spinning busily to
make a set of napkins to go with it. It covered the table when her
wedding supper was spread, was used at the christening of her first boy,
and for many a Thanksgiving and Christmas dinner through the happy years
of her married life.
Then it was preserved by her daughters, as a relic of their mother's
youth, and long after the old woman was gone, the well-worn cloth still
appeared on great occasions, till it grew too thin for anything but
careful keeping, to illustrate the story so proudly told by the
grandchildren, who found it hard to believe that the feeble old lady of
ninety could be the lively lass who played her little part in the
Revolution with such spirit.
In 1861, Tabby's table-cloth saw another war, and made an honorable end.
When men were called for, Concord responded "Here!" and sent a goodly
number, led by another brave Colonel Prescott. Barretts, Hosmers,
Melvins, Browns, and Wheelers stood shoulder to shoulder, as their
grandfathers stood that day to meet the British by the bridge. Mothers
said, "Go my son," as bravely as before, and sisters and sweethearts
smiled with wet eyes as the boys in blue marched away again, cheered on
by another noble Emerson. More than one of Tabby's descendants went,
some to fight, some to nurse; and for four long years the old town
worked and waited, hoped and prayed, burying the dear dead boys sent
home, nursing those who brought back honorable wounds, and sending more
to man the breaches made by the awful battles that filled both North and
South with a wilderness of graves.
