The two young couples flirted in different parts of the room, and
Treherne sat alone, watching them all with eyes that pierced below the
surface, reading the hidden wishes, hopes, and fears that ruled them. A
singular expression sat on his face as he turned from Octavia's clear
countenance to Mrs. Snowdon's gloomy one. He leaned his head upon his
hand and fell into deep thought, for he was passing through one of those
fateful moments which come to us all, and which may make or mar a life.
Such moments come when least looked for: an unexpected meeting, a
peculiar mood, some trivial circumstance, or careless word produces it,
and often it is gone before we realize its presence, leaving
aftereffects to show us what we have gained or lost. Treherne was
conscious that the present hour, and the acts that filled it, possessed
unusual interest, and would exert an unusual influence on his life.
Before him was the good and evil genius of his nature in the guise of
those two women. Edith Snowdon had already tried her power, and accident
only had saved him. Octavia, all unconscious as she was, never failed to
rouse and stimulate the noblest attributes of mind and heart. A year
spent in her society had done much for him, and he loved her with a
strange mingling of passion, reverence, and gratitude. He knew why Edith
Snowdon came, he felt that the old fascination had not lost its charm,
and though fear was unknown to him, he was ill pleased at the sight of
the beautiful, dangerous woman. On the other hand, he saw that Lady
Treherne desired her daughter to shun him and smile on Annon; he
acknowledged that he had no right to win the young creature, crippled
and poor as he was, and a pang of jealous pain wrung his heart as he
watched her.
Then a sense of power came to him, for helpless, poor, and seemingly an
object of pity, he yet felt that he held the honor, peace, and happiness
of nearly every person present in his hands. It was a strong temptation
to this man, so full of repressed passion and power, so set apart and
shut out from the more stirring duties and pleasures of life. A few
words from his lips, and the pity all felt for him would be turned to
fear, respect, and admiration. Why not utter them, and enjoy all that
was possible? He owed the Trehernes nothing; why suffer injustice,
dependence, and the compassion that wounds a proud man deepest? Wealth,
love, pleasure might be his with a breath. Why not secure them now?
His pale face flushed, his eye kindled, and his thin hand lay clenched
like a vise as these thoughts passed rapidly through his mind. A look, a
word at that moment would sway him; he felt it, and leaned forward,
waiting in secret suspense for the glance, the speech which should
decide him for good or ill. Who shall say what subtle instinct caused
Octavia to turn and smile at him with a wistful, friendly look that
warmed his heart? He met it with an answering glance, which thrilled her
strangely, for love, gratitude, and some mysterious intelligence met and
mingled in the brilliant yet soft expression which swiftly shone and
faded in her face. What it was she could not tell; she only felt that it
filled her with an indescribable emotion never experienced before. In an
instant it all passed, Lady Treherne spoke to her, and Blanche Talbot
addressed Maurice, wondering, as she did so, if the enchanting smile he
wore was meant for her.
