"That is so beautiful! I wish I could make merry Christmases as these
good people do, and be loved and thanked as they are," said Effie,
softly, as she watched the busy men and women do their work and steal
away without thinking of any reward but their own satisfaction.
"You can if you will. I have shown you the way. Try it, and see how
happy your own holiday will be hereafter."
As he spoke, the spirit seemed to put his arms about her, and vanished
with a kiss.
"Oh, stay and show me more!" cried Effie, trying to hold him fast.
"Darling, wake up, and tell me why you are smiling in your sleep," said
a voice in her ear; and opening her eyes, there was mamma bending over
her, and morning sunshine streaming into the room.
"Are they all gone? Did you hear the bells? Wasn't it splendid?" she
asked, rubbing her eyes, and looking about her for the pretty child who
was so real and sweet.
"You have been dreaming at a great rate,--talking in your sleep,
laughing, and clapping your hands as if you were cheering some one. Tell
me what was so splendid," said mamma, smoothing the tumbled hair and
lifting up the sleepy head.
Then, while she was being dressed, Effie told her dream, and Nursey
thought it very wonderful; but mamma smiled to see how curiously things
the child had thought, read, heard, and seen through the day were mixed
up in her sleep.
"The spirit said I could work lovely miracles if I tried; but I don't
know how to begin, for I have no magic candle to make feasts appear, and
light up groves of Christmas trees, as he did," said Effie, sorrowfully.
"Yes, you have. We will do it! we will do it!" And clapping her hands,
mamma suddenly began to dance all over the room as if she had lost her
wits.
"How? how? You must tell me, mamma," cried Effie, dancing after her, and
ready to believe anything possible when she remembered the adventures of
the past night.
"I've got it! I've got it!--the new idea. A splendid one, if I can only
carry it out!" And mamma waltzed the little girl round till her curls
flew wildly in the air, while Nursey laughed as if she would die.
"Tell me! tell me!" shrieked Effie. "No, no; it is a surprise,--a grand
surprise for Christmas day!" sung mamma, evidently charmed with her
happy thought. "Now, come to breakfast; for we must work like bees if we
want to play spirits tomorrow. You and Nursey will go out shopping, and
get heaps of things, while I arrange matters behind the scenes."
They were running downstairs as mamma spoke, and Effie called out
breathlessly,--
"It won't be a surprise; for I know you are going to ask some poor
children here, and have a tree or something. It won't be like my dream;
for they had ever so many trees, and more children than we can find
anywhere."
