Treherne smiled, and said quickly, "I am a human Argus, and you have
been a kind little Juno to me since I lost my plumes. Continue to be so,
and you will find me a very faithful friend."
"I will." And as she answered, her old smile came back and her eyes met
his again.
"Thanks! Now we shall get on happily. I don't ask or expect the old
life--that is impossible. I knew that when lovers came, the friend
would fall into the background; and I am content to be second, where I
have so long been first. Do not think you neglect me; be happy with
your lover, dear, and when you have no pleasanter amusement, come and
see old Maurice."
She turned her head away, that he might not see the angry color in her
cheeks, the trouble in her eyes, and when she spoke, it was to say
petulantly, "I wish Jasper and Mamma would leave me in peace. I hate
lovers and want none. If Frank teases, I'll go into a convent and so be
rid of him."
Maurice laughed, and turned her face toward himself, saying, in his
persuasive voice, "Give him a trial first, to please your mother. It can
do no harm and may amuse you. Frank is already lost, and, as you are
heart-whole, why not see what you can do for him? I shall have a new
study, then, and not miss you so much."
"You are very kind; I'll do my best. I wish Mrs. Snowdon would come, if
she is coming; I've an engagement at two, and Frank will look tragical
if I'm not ready. He is teaching me billiards, and I really like the
game, though I never thought I should."
"That looks well. I hope you'll learn a double lesson, and Annon find a
docile pupil in both."
"You are very pale this morning; are you in pain, Maurice?" suddenly
asked Octavia, dropping the tone of assumed ease and gaiety under which
she had tried to hide her trouble.
"Yes, but it will soon pass. Mrs. Snowdon is coming. I saw her at the
hall door a moment ago. I will show her the peacocks, if you want to go.
She won't mind the change, I dare say, as you don't like her, and I do."
"No, I am sure of that. It was an arrangement, perhaps? I understand. I
will not play Mademoiselle De Trop."
Sudden fire shone in the girl's eyes, sudden contempt curled her lip,
and a glance full of meaning went from her cousin to the door, where
Mrs. Snowdon appeared, waiting for her maid to bring her some additional
wrappings.
"You allude to the note you stole. How came you to play that prank,
Tavie?" asked Treherne tranquilly.
"I saw her put it under the urn. I thought it was for Jasper, and I took
it," she said boldly.
"Why for Jasper?"
"I remembered his speaking of meeting her long ago, and describing her
beauty enthusiastically--and so did you."
