"Why didn't you choose Juliet: St. George would do Romeo so well?"
said Lucy, with a sneer.
"No, that is beyond me. Kent says Shakespeare will never be my line,
and I believe him. I should think you'd be satisfied with 'Masks and
Faces,' for you know Mabel gets her husband safely back in the end,"
answered Christie, watching the effect of her words.
"As if I wanted the man! No, thank you, other people's leavings
won't suit me," cried Lucy, tossing her head, though her face belied
her words.
"Not even though he has 'heavenly eyes,' 'distracting legs,' and 'a
melting voice?'" asked Christie maliciously, quoting Lucy's own
rapturous speeches when the new actor came.
"Come, come, girls, don't quarrel. I won't 'ave it in me room.
Lucy's tired to death, and it's not nice of you, Kitty, to come and
crow over her this way," said Mamma Black, coming to the rescue, for
Lucy was in tears, and Christie looking dangerous.
"It's impossible to please you, so I'll say good-night," and
Christie went to her room with resentment burning hotly in her
heart.
As she crossed the chamber her eye fell on her own figure reflected
in the long glass, and with a sudden impulse she tinned up the gas,
wiped the rouge from her cheeks, pushed back her hair, and studied
her own face intently for several moments. It was pale and jaded
now, and all its freshness seemed gone; hard lines had come about
the mouth, a feverish disquiet filled the eyes, and on the forehead
seemed to lie the shadow of a discontent that saddened the whole
face. If one could believe the testimony of that countenance things
were not going well with Christie, and she owned it with a regretful
sigh, as she asked herself, "Am I what I hoped I should be? No, and
it is my fault. If three years of this life have made me this, what
shall I be in ten? A fine actress perhaps, but how good a woman?"
With gloomy eyes fixed on her altered face she stood a moment
struggling with herself. Then the hard look returned, and she spoke
out defiantly, as if in answer to some warning voice within herself.
"No one cares what I am, so why care myself? Why not go on and get
as much fame as I can? Success gives me power if it cannot give me
happiness, and I must have some reward for my hard work. Yes! a gay
life and a short one, then out with the lights and down with the
curtain!"
But in spite of her reckless words Christie sobbed herself to sleep
that night like a child who knows it is astray, yet cannot see the
right path or hear its mother's voice calling it home.
On the night of the benefit, Lucy was in a most exasperating mood,
Christie in a very indignant one, and as they entered their
dressing-room they looked as if they might have played the Rival
Queens with great effect. Lucy offered no help and Christie asked
none, but putting her vexation resolutely out of sight fixed her
mind on the task before her.
