Mrs. Black wisely reminded her that she must learn to use her wings
before she tried to fly, and comforted her with stories of
celebrities who had begun as she was beginning, yet who had suddenly
burst from their grub-like obscurity to adorn the world as splendid
butterflies.
"We'll stand by you, Kit; so keep up your courage, and do your best.
Be clever to every one in general, old Sharp in particular, and when
a chance comes, have your wits about you and grab it. That's the way
to get on," said Lucy, as sagely as if she had been a star for
years.
"If I had beauty I should stand a better chance," sighed Christie,
surveying herself with great disfavor, quite unconscious that to a
cultivated eye the soul of beauty was often visible in that face of
hers, with its intelligent eyes, sensitive mouth, and fine lines
about the forehead, making it a far more significant and attractive
countenance than that of her friend, possessing only piquant
prettiness.
"Never mind, child; you've got a lovely figure, and an actress's
best feature,--fine eyes and eyebrows. I heard old Kent say so, and
he's a judge. So make the best of what you've got, as I do,"
answered Lucy, glancing at her own comely little person with an air
of perfect resignation.
Christie laughed at the adviser, but wisely took the advice, and,
though she fretted in private, was cheerful and alert in public.
Always modest, attentive, and obliging, she soon became a favorite
with her mates, and, thanks to Lucy's good offices with Mr. Sharp,
whose favorite she was, Christie got promoted sooner than she
otherwise would have been.
A great Christmas spectacle was brought out the next season, and
Christie had a good part in it. When that was over she thought there
was no hope for her, as the regular company was full and a different
sort of performance was to begin. But just then her chance came, and
she "grabbed it." The first soubrette died suddenly, and in the
emergency Mr. Sharp offered the place to Christie till he could fill
it to his mind. Lucy was second soubrette, and had hoped for this
promotion; but Lucy did not sing well. Christie had a good voice,
had taken lessons and much improved of late, so she had the
preference and resolved to stand the test so well that this
temporary elevation should become permanent.
She did her best, and though many of the parts were distasteful to
her she got through them successfully, while now and then she had
one which she thoroughly enjoyed. Her Tilly Slowboy was a hit, and a
proud girl was Christie when Kent, the comedian, congratulated her
on it, and told her he had seldom seen it better done.
To find favor in Kent's eyes was an honor indeed, for he belonged to
the old school, and rarely condescended to praise modern actors. His
own style was so admirable that he was justly considered the first
comedian in the country, and was the pride and mainstay of the old
theatre where he had played for years. Of course he possessed much
influence in that little world, and being a kindly man used it
generously to help up any young aspirant who seemed to him
deserving.
