He had observed Christie, attracted by her intelligent face and
modest manners, for in spite of her youth there was a native
refinement about her that made it impossible for her to romp and
flirt as some of her mates did. But till she played Tilly he had not
thought she possessed any talent. That pleased him, and seeing how
much she valued his praise, and was flattered by his notice, he gave
her the wise but unpalatable advice always offered young actors.
Finding that she accepted it, was willing to study hard, work
faithfully, and wait patiently, he predicted that in time she would
make a clever actress, never a great one.
Of course Christie thought he was mistaken, and secretly resolved to
prove him a false prophet by the triumphs of her career. But she
meekly bowed to his opinion; this docility pleased him, and he took
a paternal sort of interest in her, which, coming from the powerful
favorite, did her good service with the higher powers, and helped
her on more rapidly than years of meritorious effort.
Toward the end of that second season several of Dickens's dramatized
novels were played, and Christie earned fresh laurels. She loved
those books, and seemed by instinct to understand and personate the
humor and pathos of many of those grotesque creations. Believing she
had little beauty to sacrifice, she dressed such parts to the life,
and played them with a spirit and ease that surprised those who had
considered her a dignified and rather dull young person.
"I'll tell you what it is, Sharp, that girl is going to make a
capital character actress. When her parts suit, she forgets herself
entirely and does admirably well. Her Miggs was nearly the death of
me to-night. She's got that one gift, and it's a good one. You 'd
better give her a chance, for I think she'll be a credit to the old
concern."
Kent said that,--Christie heard it, and flew to Lucy, waving Miggs's
cap for joy as she told the news.
"What did Mr. Sharp say?" asked Lucy, turning round with her face
half "made up."
"He merely said 'Hum,' and smiled. Wasn't that a good sign?" said
Christie, anxiously.
"Can't say," and Lucy touched up her eyebrows as if she took no
interest in the affair.
Christie's face fell, and her heart sunk at the thought of failure;
but she kept up her spirits by working harder than ever, and soon
had her reward. Mr. Sharp's "Hum" did mean yes, and the next season
she was regularly engaged, with a salary of thirty dollars a week.
It was a grand step, and knowing that she owed it to Kent, Christie
did her utmost to show that she deserved his good opinion. New
trials and temptations beset her now, but hard work and an innocent
nature kept her safe and busy. Obstacles only spurred her on to
redoubled exertion, and whether she did well or ill, was praised or
blamed, she found a never-failing excitement in her attempts to
reach the standard of perfection she had set up for herself. Kent
did not regret his patronage. Mr. Sharp was satisfied with the
success of the experiment, and Christie soon became a favorite in a
small way, because behind the actress the public always saw a woman
who never "forgot the modesty of nature."
