Looking up she saw Lucy just home from rehearsal, going through a
series of pantomimic evolutions suggestive of a warrior doing battle
with incredible valor, and a very limited knowledge of the noble art
of self-defence.
"What have you got? Who is the queen?" she asked, laughing, as the
breathless hero lowered her umbrella, and laid her bonnet at
Christie's feet.
"You are to be the Queen of the Amazons in our new spectacle, at
half a dollar a night for six or eight weeks, if the piece goes
well."
"No!" cried Christie, with a gasp.
"Yes!" cried Lucy, clapping her hands; and then she proceeded to
tell her news with theatrical volubility. "Mr. Sharp, the manager,
wants a lot of tallish girls, and I told him I knew of a perfect
dear. He said: 'Bring her on, then,' and I flew home to tell you.
Now, don't look wild, and say no. You've only got to sing in one
chorus, march in the grand procession, and lead your band in the
terrific battle-scene. The dress is splendid! Red tunic, tiger-skin
over shoulder, helmet, shield, lance, fleshings, sandals, hair down,
and as much cork to your eyebrows as you like."
Christie certainly did look wild, for Lucy had burst into the room
like a small hurricane, and her rapid words rattled about the
listeners' ears as if a hail-storm had followed the gust. While
Christie still sat with her mouth open, too bewildered to reply,
Mrs. Black said in her cosey voice:
"Try it, me dear, it's just what you'll enjoy, and a capital
beginning I assure ye; for if you do well old Sharp will want you
again, and then, when some one slips out of the company, you can
slip in, and there you are quite comfortable. Try it, me dear, and
if you don't like it drop it when the piece is over, and there's no
harm done."
"It's much easier and jollier than any of the things you are after.
We'll stand by you like bricks, and in a week you'll say it's the
best lark you ever had in your life. Don't be prim, now, but say
yes, like a trump, as you are," added Lucy, waving a pink satin
train temptingly before her friend.
"I will try it!" said Christie, with sudden decision, feeling that
something entirely new and absorbing was what she needed to expend
the vigor, romance, and enthusiasm of her youth upon.
With a shriek of delight Lucy swept her off her chair, and twirled
her about the room as excitable young ladies are fond of doing when
their joyful emotions need a vent. When both were giddy they
subsided into a corner and a breathless discussion of the important
step.
Though she had consented, Christie had endless doubts and fears, but
Lucy removed many of the former, and her own desire for pleasant
employment conquered many of the latter. In her most despairing
moods she had never thought of trying this. Uncle Enos considered
"play-actin'" as the sum of all iniquity. What would he say if she
went calmly to destruction by that road? Sad to relate, this
recollection rather strengthened her purpose, for a delicious sense
of freedom pervaded her soul, and the old defiant spirit seemed to
rise up within her at the memory of her Uncle's grim prophecies and
narrow views.
