"Lucy is happy, virtuous, and independent, why can't I be so too if
I have any talent? It isn't exactly what I should choose, but any
thing honest is better than idleness. I'll try it any way, and get a
little fun, even if I don't make much money or glory out of it."
So Christie held to her resolution in spite of many secret
misgivings, and followed Mrs. Black's advice on all points with a
docility which caused that sanguine lady to predict that she would
be a star before she knew where she was.
"Is this the stage? How dusty and dull it is by daylight!" said
Christie next day, as she stood by Lucy on the very spot where she
had seen Hamlet die in great anguish two nights before.
"Bless you, child, it's in curl-papers now, as I am of a morning.
Mr. Sharp, here's an Amazon for you."
As she spoke, Lucy hurried across the stage, followed by Christie,
wearing any thing but an Amazonian expression just then.
"Ever on before?" abruptly asked, a keen-faced, little man, glancing
with an experienced eye at the young person who stood before him
bathed in blushes.
"No, sir."
"Do you sing?"
"A little, sir."
"Dance, of course?"
"Yes, sir."
"Just take a turn across the stage, will you? Must walk well to lead
a march."
As she went, Christie heard Mr. Sharp taking notes audibly:
"Good tread; capital figure; fine eye. She'll make up well, and
behave herself, I fancy."
A strong desire to make off seized the girl; but, remembering that
she had presented herself for inspection, she controlled the
impulse, and returned to him with no demonstration of displeasure,
but a little more fire in "the fine eye," and a more erect carriage
of the "capital figure."
"All right, my dear. Give your name to Mr. Tripp, and your mind to
the business, and consider yourself engaged,"--with which
satisfactory remark the little man vanished like a ghost.
"Lucy, did you hear that impertinent 'my dear'?" asked Christie,
whose sense of propriety had received its first shock.
"Lord, child, all managers do it. They don't mean any thing; so be
resigned, and thank your stars he didn't say 'love' and 'darling,'
and kiss you, as old Vining used to," was all the sympathy she got.
Having obeyed orders, Lucy initiated her into the mysteries of the
place, and then put her in a corner to look over the scenes in which
she was to appear. Christie soon caught the idea of her part,--not a
difficult matter, as there were but few ideas in the whole piece,
after which she sat watching the arrival of the troop she was to
lead. A most forlorn band of warriors they seemed, huddled together,
and looking as if afraid to speak, lest they should infringe some
rule; or to move, lest they be swallowed up by some unsuspected
trap-door.
Presently the ballet-master appeared, the orchestra struck up, and
Christie found herself marching and counter-marching at word of
command. At first, a most uncomfortable sense of the absurdity of
her position oppressed and confused her; then the ludicrous contrast
between the solemn anxiety of the troop and the fantastic evolutions
they were performing amused her till the novelty wore off; the
martial music excited her; the desire to please sharpened her wits;
and natural grace made it easy for her to catch and copy the steps
and poses given her to imitate. Soon she forgot herself, entered
into the spirit of the thing, and exerted every sense to please, so
successfully that Mr. Tripp praised her quickness at comprehension,
Lucy applauded heartily from a fairy car, and Mr. Sharp popped his
head out of a palace window to watch the Amazon's descent from the
Mountains of the Moon.
