Meantime Mrs. Transome went to the door-steps, watching and listening in
vain. Each time she returned to the same room; it was a moderate-sized
comfortable room, with low ebony bookshelves round it, and it formed an
ante-room to a large library, of which a glimpse could be seen through
an open doorway, partly obstructed by a heavy tapestry curtain drawn on
one side. There was a great deal of tarnished gilding and dinginess on
the walls and furniture of this smaller room, but the pictures above the
bookcases were all of a cheerful kind: portraits in pastel of
pearly-skinned ladies with hair-powder, blue ribbons, and low bodices; a
splendid portrait in oils of a Transome in the gorgeous dress of the
Restoration; another of a Transome in his boyhood, with his hand on the
neck of a small pony; and a large Flemish battle-piece, where war seemed
only a picturesque blue-and-red accident in a vast sunny expanse of
plain and sky. Probably such cheerful pictures had been chosen because
this was Mrs. Transome's usual sitting-room: it was certainly for this
reason that, near the chair in which she seated herself each time she
re-entered, there hung a picture of a youthful face which bore a strong
resemblance to her own: a beardless but masculine face, with rich brown
hair hanging low on the forehead, and undulating beside each cheek down
to the loose white cravat. Near this same chair were her writing table,
with vellum-covered account-books on it, the cabinet in which she kept
her neatly-arranged drugs, her basket for her embroidery, a folio volume
of architectural engravings from which she took her embroidery-patterns,
a number of the "North Loamshire Herald," and the cushion for her fat
Blenheim, which was too old and sleepy to notice its mistress's
restlessness. For, just now, Mrs. Transome could not abridge the sunny
tedium of the day by the feeble interest of her usual indoor
occupations. Her consciousness was absorbed by memories and prospects,
and except that she walked to the entrance-door to look out, she sat
motionless with folded arms, involuntarily from time to time turning
toward the portrait close by her, and as often, when its young brown
eyes met hers, turning away again with self-checking resolution.
At last, prompted by some sudden thought or by some sound, she rose and
went hastily beyond the tapestry curtain into the library. She paused
near the door without speaking: apparently she only wished to see that
no harm was being done. A man nearer seventy than sixty was in the act
of ranging on a large library-table a series of shallow drawers, some of
them containing dried insects, others mineralogical specimens. His pale
mild eyes, receding lower jaw, and slight frame, could never have
expressed much vigor, either bodily or mental; but he had now the
unevenness of gait and feebleness of gesture which tell of a past
paralytic seizure. His threadbare clothes were thoroughly brushed: his
soft white hair was carefully parted and arranged: he was not a
neglected-looking old man; and at his side a fine black retriever, also
old, sat on its haunches, and watched him as he went to and fro. But
when Mrs. Transome appeared within the doorway, her husband paused in
his work and shrank like a timid animal looked at in a cage where flight
was impossible. He was conscious of a troublesome intention, for which
he had been rebuked before--that of disturbing all his specimens with a
view to a new arrangement.
