"However, you will act for me--that's settled?" said Harold.
"Certainly," said Jermyn, inwardly irritated by Harold's rapid manner of
cutting him short.
"Which of the Liberal candidates, as they call themselves, has the
better chance, eh?"
"I was going to observe that Sir James Clement has not so good a
chance as Mr. Garstin, supposing that a third Liberal candidate
presents himself. There are two senses in which a politician can be
liberal"--here Mr. Jermyn smiled--"Sir James Clement is a poor baronet,
hoping for an appointment, and can't be expected to be liberal in that
wider sense which commands majorities."
"I wish this man were not so much of a talker," thought Harold, "he'll
bore me. We shall see," he said aloud, "what can be done in the way of
combination. I'll come down to your office after one o'clock if it will
suit you?"
"Perfectly."
"Ah, and you'll have all the lists and papers and necessary information
ready for me there. I must get up a dinner for the tenants, and we can
invite whom we like besides the tenants. Just now, I'm going over one of
the farms on hand with the bailiff. By the way, that's a desperately bad
business, having three farms unlet--how comes that about, eh?"
"That is precisely what I wanted to say a few words about to you. You
have observed already how strongly Mrs. Transome takes certain things to
heart. You can imagine that she has been severely tried in many ways.
Mr. Transome's want of health; Mr. Durfey's habits--a----"
"Yes, yes."
"She is a woman for whom I naturally entertain the highest respect, and
she has had hardly any gratification for many years, except the sense of
having affairs to a certain extent in her own hands. She objects to
changes; she will not have a new style of tenants; she likes the old
stock of farmers who milk their own cows, and send their younger
daughters out to service: all this makes it difficult to do the best
with the estate. I am aware things are not as they ought to be, for, in
point of fact, improved agricultural management is a matter in which I
take considerable interest, and the farm which I myself hold on the
estate you will see, I think, to be in a superior condition. But Mrs.
Transome is a woman of strong feeling, and I would urge you, my dear
sir, to make the changes which you have, but which I had not the right
to insist on, as little painful to her as possible."
"I shall know what to do, sir, never fear," said Harold, much offended.
"You will pardon, I hope, a perhaps undue freedom of suggestion from a
man of my age, who has been so long in a close connection with the
family affairs--a--I have never considered that connection simply in a
light of business--a----"
"Damn him, I'll soon let him know that _I_ do," thought Harold. But in
proportion as he found Jermyn's manners annoying, he felt the necessity
of controlling himself. He despised all persons who defeated their own
projects by the indulgence of momentary impulses.
