"That is a terrible prophecy," said the Greek, "especially if your
Florentine maidens are many of them as pretty as the little Tessa I
stole a kiss from this morning."
"Tessa? she is a rough-handed contadina: you will rise into the favour
of dames who bring no scent of the mule-stables with them.  But to that
end, you must not have the air of a _sgherro_, or a man of evil repute:
you must look like a courtier, and a scholar of the more polished sort,
such as our Pietro Crinito--like one who sins among well-bred, well-fed
people, and not one who sucks down vile _vino di sotto_ in a chance
tavern."
"With all my heart," said the stranger.  "If the Florentine Graces
demand it, I am willing to give up this small matter of my beard, but--"
"Yes, yes," interrupted Nello.  "I know what you would say.  It is the
_bella zazzera_--the hyacinthine locks, you do not choose to part with;
and there is no need.  Just a little pruning--ecco!--and you will look
not unlike the illustrious prince Pico di Mirandola in his prime.  And
here we are in good time in the Piazza San Giovanni, and at the door of
my shop.  But you are pausing, I see: naturally, you want to look at our
wonder of the world, our Duomo, our Santa Maria del Fiore.  Well, well,
a mere glance; but I beseech you to leave a closer survey till you have
been shaved: I am quivering with the inspiration of my art even to the
very edge of my razor.  Ah, then, come round this way."
The mercurial barber seized the arm of the stranger, and led him to a
point, on the south side of the piazza, from which he could see at once
the huge dark shell of the cupola, the slender soaring grace of Giotto's
campanile, and the quaint octagon of San Giovanni in front of them,
showing its unique gates of storied bronze, which still bore the
somewhat dimmed glory of their original gilding.  The inlaid marbles
were then fresher in their pink, and white, and purple, than they are
now, when the winters of four centuries have turned their white to the
rich ochre of well-mellowed meerschaum; the facade of the cathedral did
not stand ignominious in faded stucco, but had upon it the magnificent
promise of the half-completed marble inlaying and statued niches, which
Giotto had devised a hundred and fifty years before; and as the
campanile in all its harmonious variety of colour and form led the eyes
upward, high into the clear air of this April morning, it seemed a
prophetic symbol, telling that human life must somehow and some time
shape itself into accord with that pure aspiring beauty.
But this was not the impression it appeared to produce on the Greek.
His eyes were irresistibly led upward, but as he stood with his arms
folded and his curls falling backward, there was a slight touch of scorn
on his lip, and when his eyes fell again they glanced round with a
scanning coolness which was rather piquing to Nello's Florentine spirit.
