A secondary cause was probably the laxity of opinion and practice with
regard to the marriage-tie.  Heaven forbid that we should enter on a
defence of French morals, most of all in relation to marriage!  But it is
undeniable that unions formed in the maturity of thought and feeling, and
grounded only on inherent fitness and mutual attraction, tended to bring
women into more intelligent sympathy with men, and to heighten and
complicate their share in the political drama.  The quiescence and
security of the conjugal relation are doubtless favorable to the
manifestation of the highest qualities by persons who have already
attained a high standard of culture, but rarely foster a passion
sufficient to rouse all the faculties to aid in winning or retaining its
beloved object--to convert indolence into activity, indifference into
ardent partisanship, dulness into perspicuity.  Gallantry and intrigue
are sorry enough things in themselves, but they certainly serve better to
arouse the dormant faculties of woman than embroidery and domestic
drudgery, especially when, as in the high society of France in the
seventeenth century, they are refined by the influence of Spanish
chivalry, and controlled by the spirit of Italian causticity.  The dreamy
and fantastic girl was awakened to reality by the experience of wifehood
and maternity, and became capable of loving, not a mere phantom of her
own imagination, but a living man, struggling with the hatreds and
rivalries of the political arena; she espoused his quarrels, she made
herself, her fortune, and her influence, the stepping-stones of his
ambition; and the languid beauty, who had formerly seemed ready to "die
of a rose," was seen to become the heroine of an insurrection.  The vivid
interest in affairs which was thus excited in woman must obviously have
tended to quicken her intellect, and give it a practical application; and
the very sorrows--the heart-pangs and regrets which are inseparable from
a life of passion--deepened her nature by the questioning of self and
destiny which they occasioned, and by the energy demanded to surmount
them and live on.  No wise person, we imagine, wishes to restore the
social condition of France in the seventeenth century, or considers the
ideal programme of woman's life to be a _marriage de convenance_ at
fifteen, a career of gallantry from twenty to eight-and-thirty, and
penitence and piety for the rest of her days.  Nevertheless, that social
condition has its good results, as much as the madly superstitious
Crusades had theirs.
But the most indisputable source of feminine culture and development in
France was the influence of the _salons_, which, as all the world knows,
were _reunions_ of both sexes, where conversation ran along the whole
gamut of subjects, from the frothiest _vers de societe_ to the philosophy
of Descartes.  Richelieu had set the fashion of uniting a taste for
letters with the habits of polite society and the pursuits of ambition;
and in the first quarter of the seventeenth century there were already
several hotels in Paris, varying in social position from the closest
proximity of the Court to the debatable ground of the aristocracy and the
bourgeoisie, which served as a rendezvous for different circles of
people, bent on entertaining themselves either by showing talent or
admiring it.  The most celebrated of these rendezvous was the Hotel de
Rambouillet, which was at the culmination of its glory in 1630, and did
not become quite extinct until 1648, when the troubles of the Fronde
commencing, its _habitues_ were dispersed or absorbed by political
interests.  The presiding genius of this _salon_, the Marquise de
Rambouillet, was the very model of the woman who can act as anamalgam to
the most incongruous elements; beautiful, but not preoccupied by
coquetry, or passion; an enthusiastic admirer of talent, but with no
pretensions to talent on her own part; exquisitely refined in language
and manners, but warm and generous withal; not given to entertain her
guests with her own compositions, or to paralyze them by her universal
knowledge.  She had once _meant_ to learn Latin, but had been prevented
by an illness; perhaps she was all the better acquainted with Italian and
Spanish productions, which, in default of a national literature, were
then the intellectual pabulum of all cultivated persons in France who are
unable to read the classics.  In her mild, agreeable presence was
accomplished that blending of the high-toned chivalry of Spain with the
caustic wit and refined irony of Italy, which issued in the creation of a
new standard of taste--the combination of the utmost exaltation in
sentiment with the utmost simplicity of language.  Women are peculiarly
fitted to further such a combination--first, from their greater tendency
to mingle affection and imagination with passion, and thus subtilize it
into sentiment; and next, from that dread of what overtaxes their
intellectual energies, either by difficulty, or monotony, which gives
them an instinctive fondness for lightness of treatment and airiness of
expression, thus making them cut short all prolixity and reject all
heaviness.  When these womanly characteristics were brought into
conversational contact with the materials furnished by such minds as
those of Richelieu, Corneille, the Great Conde, Balzac, and Bossuet, it
is no wonder that the result was something piquant and charming.  Those
famous _habitues_ of the Hotel de Rambouillet did not, apparently, first
lay themselves out to entertain the ladies with grimacing "small-talk,"
and then take each other by the sword-knot to discuss matters of real
interest in a corner; they rather sought to present their best ideas in
the guise most acceptable to intelligent and accomplished women.  And the
conversation was not of literature only: war, politics, religion, the
lightest details of daily news--everything was admissible, if only it
were treated with refinement and intelligence.  The Hotel de Rambouillet
was no mere literary _reunion_; it included _hommes d'affaires_ and
soldiers as well as authors, and in such a circle women would not become
_bas bleus_ or dreamy moralizers, ignorant of the world and of human
nature, but intelligent observers of character and events.  It is easy to
understand, however, that with the herd of imitators who, in Paris and
the provinces, aped the style of this famous _salon_, simplicity
degenerated into affectation, and nobility of sentiment was replaced by
an inflated effort to outstrip nature, so that the _genre precieux_ drew
down the satire, which reached its climax in the _Precieuses Ridicules_
and _Les Femmes Savantes_, the former of which appeared in 1660, and the
latter in 1673.  But Madelon and Caltros are the lineal descendants of
Mademoiselle Scudery and her satellites, quite as much as of the Hotel de
Rambouillet.  The society which assembled every Saturday in her _salon_
was exclusively literary, and although occasionally visited by a few
persons of high birth, bourgeois in its tone, and enamored of madrigals,
sonnets, stanzas, and _bouts rimes_.  The affectation that decks trivial
things in fine language belongs essentially to a class which sees another
above it, and is uneasy in the sense of its inferiority; and this
affectation is precisely the opposite of the original _genre precieux_.
