But if this is a great mind fascinated with the insoluble enigma of human
motives, it is a mind profoundly in sympathy with those who are puzzling
hopelessly over the riddle or are struggling hopelessly in its toils.
She is "on a level and in the press with them as they struggle their way
along the stony road through the crowd of unloving fellow-men."  She says
"the only true knowledge of our fellows is that which enables us to feel
with them, which gives us a finer ear for the heart-pulses that are
beating under the mere clothes of circumstance and opinion."  No artist
in fiction ever had a finer ear or a more human sympathy for the
straggler who "pushes manfully on" and "falls at last," leaving "the
crowd to close over the space he has left."  Her extraordinary skill in
disclosing "the peculiar combination of outward with inward facts which
constitute a man's critical actions," only makes her the more charitable
in judging them.  "Until we know what this combination has been, or will
be, it will be better not to think ourselves wise about" the character
that results.  "There is a terrible coercion in our deeds which may first
turn the honest man into a deceiver, and then reconcile him to the
change.  And for this reason the second wrong presents itself to him in
the guise of the only practicable right."  There is nothing of the spirit
of "served him right," or "just what she deserved," or "they ought to
have known better," in George Eliot.  That is not in her line.  The
opposite of that is exactly in her line.  This is characteristic of her:
"In this world there are so many of these common, coarse people, who have
no picturesque or sentimental wretchedness!  And it is so needful we
should remember their existence, else we may happen to leave them quite
out of our religion and philosophy, and frame lofty theories which only
fit a world of extremes."  She does not leave them out.  Her books are
full of them, and of a Christly charity and plea for them.  Who can ever
forget little Tiny, "hidden and uncared for as the pulse of anguish in
the breast of the bird that has fluttered down to its nest with the
long-sought food, and has found the nest torn and empty?"  There is
nothing in fiction to surpass in pathos the picture of the death of Mrs.
Amos Barton.  George Eliot's fellow-feeling comes of the habit she
ascribes to Daniel Deronda, "the habit of thinking herself imaginatively
into the experience of others."  That is the reason why her novels come
home so pitilessly to those who have had a deep experience of human life.
These are the men and women whom she fascinates and alienates.  I know
strong men and brave women who are afraid of her books, and say so.  It
is because of her realness, her unrelenting fidelity to human nature and
human life.  It is because the analysis is so delicate, subtle, and
far-in.  Hence the atmosphere of sadness that pervades her pages.  It was
unavoidable.  To see only the behavior, as Dickens did, amuses us; to
study only the motive at the root of the behavior, as George Eliot does,
saddens us.  The humor of Mrs. Poyser and the wit of Mrs. Transome only
deepen the pathos by relieving it.  There is hardly a sarcasm in these
books but has its pensive undertone.
