LETTER the 15th LAURA in continuation.
When we arrived at the town where we were to Breakfast, I was determined
to speak with Philander and Gustavus, and to that purpose as soon as
I left the Carriage, I went to the Basket and tenderly enquired after
their Health, expressing my fears of the uneasiness of their situation.
At first they seemed rather confused at my appearance dreading no doubt
that I might call them to account for the money which our Grandfather
had left me and which they had unjustly deprived me of, but finding
that I mentioned nothing of the Matter, they desired me to step into
the Basket as we might there converse with greater ease. Accordingly I
entered and whilst the rest of the party were devouring green tea and
buttered toast, we feasted ourselves in a more refined and sentimental
Manner by a confidential Conversation. I informed them of every thing
which had befallen me during the course of my life, and at my request
they related to me every incident of theirs.
"We are the sons as you already know, of the two youngest Daughters
which Lord St Clair had by Laurina an italian opera girl. Our mothers
could neither of them exactly ascertain who were our Father, though it
is generally beleived that Philander, is the son of one Philip Jones
a Bricklayer and that my Father was one Gregory Staves a Staymaker of
Edinburgh. This is however of little consequence for as our Mothers were
certainly never married to either of them it reflects no Dishonour on
our Blood, which is of a most ancient and unpolluted kind. Bertha (the
Mother of Philander) and Agatha (my own Mother) always lived together.
They were neither of them very rich; their united fortunes had
originally amounted to nine thousand Pounds, but as they had always
lived on the principal of it, when we were fifteen it was diminished to
nine Hundred. This nine Hundred they always kept in a Drawer in one
of the Tables which stood in our common sitting Parlour, for the
convenience of having it always at Hand. Whether it was from this
circumstance, of its being easily taken, or from a wish of being
independant, or from an excess of sensibility (for which we were always
remarkable) I cannot now determine, but certain it is that when we had
reached our 15th year, we took the nine Hundred Pounds and ran away.
Having obtained this prize we were determined to manage it with eoconomy
and not to spend it either with folly or Extravagance. To this purpose
we therefore divided it into nine parcels, one of which we devoted to
Victuals, the 2d to Drink, the 3d to Housekeeping, the 4th to Carriages,
the 5th to Horses, the 6th to Servants, the 7th to Amusements, the 8th
to Cloathes and the 9th to Silver Buckles. Having thus arranged our
Expences for two months (for we expected to make the nine Hundred Pounds
last as long) we hastened to London and had the good luck to spend it in
7 weeks and a Day which was 6 Days sooner than we had intended. As soon
as we had thus happily disencumbered ourselves from the weight of
so much money, we began to think of returning to our Mothers, but
accidentally hearing that they were both starved to Death, we gave over
the design and determined to engage ourselves to some strolling Company
of Players, as we had always a turn for the Stage. Accordingly we
offered our services to one and were accepted; our Company was
indeed rather small, as it consisted only of the Manager his wife
and ourselves, but there were fewer to pay and the only inconvenience
attending it was the Scarcity of Plays which for want of People to fill
the Characters, we could perform. We did not mind trifles however--.
One of our most admired Performances was MACBETH, in which we were
truly great. The Manager always played BANQUO himself, his Wife my LADY
MACBETH. I did the THREE WITCHES and Philander acted ALL THE REST. To
say the truth this tragedy was not only the Best, but the only Play
that we ever performed; and after having acted it all over England, and
Wales, we came to Scotland to exhibit it over the remainder of Great
Britain. We happened to be quartered in that very Town, where you came
and met your Grandfather--. We were in the Inn-yard when his Carriage
entered and perceiving by the arms to whom it belonged, and knowing
that Lord St Clair was our Grandfather, we agreed to endeavour to get
something from him by discovering the Relationship--. You know how well
it succeeded--. Having obtained the two Hundred Pounds, we instantly
left the Town, leaving our Manager and his Wife to act MACBETH by
themselves, and took the road to Sterling, where we spent our little
fortune with great ECLAT. We are now returning to Edinburgh in order to
get some preferment in the Acting way; and such my Dear Cousin is our
History."
