"And here he is; (said a Gracefull Youth who that instant entered the
room) here is the Gustavus you desire to see. I am the son of Agatha
your Laurina's 4th and youngest Daughter," "I see you are indeed;
replied Lord St. Clair--But tell me (continued he looking fearfully
towards the Door) tell me, have I any other Grand-children in the
House." "None my Lord." "Then I will provide for you all without farther
delay--Here are 4 Banknotes of 50L each--Take them and remember I
have done the Duty of a Grandfather." He instantly left the Room and
immediately afterwards the House. Adeiu, Laura.
LETTER the 12th LAURA in continuation
You may imagine how greatly we were surprised by the sudden departure
of Lord St Clair. "Ignoble Grand-sire!" exclaimed Sophia. "Unworthy
Grandfather!" said I, and instantly fainted in each other's arms. How
long we remained in this situation I know not; but when we recovered
we found ourselves alone, without either Gustavus, Philander, or the
Banknotes. As we were deploring our unhappy fate, the Door of the
Apartment opened and "Macdonald" was announced. He was Sophia's cousin.
The haste with which he came to our releif so soon after the receipt
of our Note, spoke so greatly in his favour that I hesitated not to
pronounce him at first sight, a tender and simpathetic Freind. Alas!
he little deserved the name--for though he told us that he was much
concerned at our Misfortunes, yet by his own account it appeared that
the perusal of them, had neither drawn from him a single sigh, nor
induced him to bestow one curse on our vindictive stars--. He told
Sophia that his Daughter depended on her returning with him to
Macdonald-Hall, and that as his Cousin's freind he should be happy
to see me there also. To Macdonald-Hall, therefore we went, and were
received with great kindness by Janetta the Daughter of Macdonald, and
the Mistress of the Mansion. Janetta was then only fifteen; naturally
well disposed, endowed with a susceptible Heart, and a simpathetic
Disposition, she might, had these amiable qualities been properly
encouraged, have been an ornament to human Nature; but unfortunately her
Father possessed not a soul sufficiently exalted to admire so promising
a Disposition, and had endeavoured by every means on his power
to prevent it encreasing with her Years. He had actually so far
extinguished the natural noble Sensibility of her Heart, as to prevail
on her to accept an offer from a young Man of his Recommendation. They
were to be married in a few months, and Graham, was in the House when
we arrived. WE soon saw through his character. He was just such a Man as
one might have expected to be the choice of Macdonald. They said he was
Sensible, well-informed, and Agreable; we did not pretend to Judge of
such trifles, but as we were convinced he had no soul, that he had
never read the sorrows of Werter, and that his Hair bore not the least
resemblance to auburn, we were certain that Janetta could feel no
affection for him, or at least that she ought to feel none. The very
circumstance of his being her father's choice too, was so much in his
disfavour, that had he been deserving her, in every other respect yet
THAT of itself ought to have been a sufficient reason in the Eyes of
Janetta for rejecting him. These considerations we were determined to
represent to her in their proper light and doubted not of meeting with
the desired success from one naturally so well disposed; whose errors in
the affair had only arisen from a want of proper confidence in her own
opinion, and a suitable contempt of her father's. We found her indeed
all that our warmest wishes could have hoped for; we had no difficulty
to convince her that it was impossible she could love Graham, or that it
was her Duty to disobey her Father; the only thing at which she rather
seemed to hesitate was our assertion that she must be attached to some
other Person. For some time, she persevered in declaring that she knew
no other young man for whom she had the the smallest Affection; but upon
explaining the impossibility of such a thing she said that she beleived
she DID LIKE Captain M'Kenrie better than any one she knew besides. This
confession satisfied us and after having enumerated the good Qualities
of M'Kenrie and assured her that she was violently in love with him, we
desired to know whether he had ever in any wise declared his affection
to her.
