The more I write, the better my eye gets; so I shall at least keep on
till it is quite well, before I give up my pen to my mother.
Mrs. Bramston's little movable apartment was tolerably filled last night
by herself, Mrs. H. Blackstone, her two daughters, and me. I do not like
the Miss Blackstones; indeed, I was always determined not to like them,
so there is the less merit in it. Mrs. Bramston was very civil, kind,
and noisy. I spent a very pleasant evening, chiefly among the Manydown
party. There was the same kind of supper as last year, and the same want
of chairs. There were more dancers than the room could conveniently
hold, which is enough to constitute a good ball at any time.
I do not think I was very much in request. People were rather apt not to
ask me till they could not help it; one's consequence, you know, varies
so much at times without any particular reason. There was one gentleman,
an officer of the Cheshire, a very good-looking young man, who, I was
told, wanted very much to be introduced to me; but as he did not want
it quite enough to take much trouble in effecting it, we never could
bring it about.
I danced with Mr. John Wood again, twice with a Mr. South, a lad from
Winchester, who, I suppose, is as far from being related to the bishop
of that diocese as it is possible to be, with G. Lefroy, and J. Harwood,
who, I think, takes to me rather more than he used to do. One of my
gayest actions was sitting down two dances in preference to having Lord
Bolton's eldest son for my partner, who danced too ill to be endured.
The Miss Charterises were there, and played the parts of the Miss Edens
with great spirit. Charles never came. Naughty Charles! I suppose he
could not get superseded in time.
Miss Debary has replaced your two sheets of drawing-paper with two of
superior size and quality; so I do not grudge her having taken them at
all now. Mr. Ludlow and Miss Pugh of Andover are lately married, and so
is Mrs. Skeete of Basingstoke, and Mr. French, chemist, of Reading.
I do not wonder at your wanting to read "First Impressions" again, so
seldom as you have gone through it, and that so long ago. I am much
obliged to you for meaning to leave my old petticoat behind you. I have
long secretly wished it might be done, but had not courage to make the
request.
Pray mention the name of Maria Montresor's lover when you write next. My
mother wants to know it, and I have not courage to look back into your
letters to find it out.
I shall not be able to send this till to-morrow, and you will be
disappointed on Friday; I am very sorry for it, but I cannot help it.
The partnership between Jeffereys, Toomer, and Legge is dissolved; the
two latter are melted away into nothing, and it is to be hoped that
Jeffereys will soon break, for the sake of a few heroines whose money he
may have. I wish you joy of your birthday twenty times over.
