There! I may now finish my letter and go and hang myself, for I am sure
I can neither write nor do anything which will not appear insipid to you
after this. _Now_ I really think he will soon be made, and only wish we
could communicate our foreknowledge of the event to him whom it
principally concerns. My father has written to Daysh to desire that he
will inform us, if he can, when the commission is sent. Your chief wish
is now ready to be accomplished; and could Lord Spencer give happiness
to Martha at the same time, what a joyful heart he would make of yours!
I have sent the same extract of the sweets of Gambier to Charles, who,
poor fellow, though he sinks into nothing but an humble attendant on the
hero of the piece, will, I hope, be contented with the prospect held out
to him. By what the Admiral says, it appears as if he had been
designedly kept in the "Scorpion." But I will not torment myself with
conjectures and suppositions; facts shall satisfy me.
Frank had not heard from any of us for ten weeks when he wrote to me on
November 12 in consequence of Lord St. Vincent being removed to
Gibraltar. When his commission is sent, however, it will not be so long
on its road as our letters, because all the Government despatches are
forwarded by land to his lordship from Lisbon with great regularity.
I returned from Manydown this morning, and found my mother certainly in
no respect worse than when I left her. She does not like the cold
weather, but that we cannot help. I spent my time very quietly and very
pleasantly with Catherine. Miss Blackford is agreeable enough. I do not
want people to be very agreeable, as it saves me the trouble of liking
them a great deal. I found only Catherine and her when I got to Manydown
on Thursday. We dined together, and went together to Worting to seek the
protection of Mrs. Clarke, with whom were Lady Mildmay, her eldest son,
and Mr. and Mrs. Hoare.
Our ball was very thin, but by no means unpleasant. There were
thirty-one people, and only eleven ladies out of the number, and but
five single women in the room. Of the gentlemen present you may have
some idea from the list of my partners,--Mr. Wood, G. Lefroy, Rice, a
Mr. Butcher (belonging to the Temples, a sailor and not of the 11th
Light Dragoons), Mr. Temple (not the horrid one of all), Mr. Wm. Orde
(cousin to the Kingsclere man), Mr. John Harwood, and Mr. Calland, who
appeared as usual with his hat in his hand, and stood every now and then
behind Catherine and me to be talked to and abused for not dancing. We
teased him, however, into it at last. I was very glad to see him again
after so long a separation, and he was altogether rather the genius and
flirt of the evening. He inquired after you.
