It began to occur to me before you mentioned it that I had been
somewhat silent as to my mother's health for some time, but I thought
you could have no difficulty in divining its exact state,--you, who have
guessed so much stranger things. She is tolerably well,--better upon the
whole than she was some weeks ago. She would tell you herself that she
has a very dreadful cold in her head at present; but I have not much
compassion for colds in the head without fever or sore throat.
Our own particular little brother got a place in the coach last night,
and is now, I suppose, in town. I have no objection at all to your
buying our gowns there, as your imagination has pictured to you exactly
such a one as is necessary to make me happy. You quite abash me by your
progress in notting, for I am still without silk. You must get me some
in town or in Canterbury; it should be finer than yours.
I thought Edward would not approve of Charles being a crop, and rather
wished you to conceal it from him at present, lest it might fall on his
spirits and retard his recovery. My father furnishes him with a pig from
Cheesedown; it is already killed and cut up, but it is not to weigh more
than nine stone; the season is too far advanced to get him a larger one.
My mother means to pay herself for the salt and the trouble of ordering
it to be cured by the spareribs, the souse, and the lard. We have had
one dead lamb.
I congratulate you on Mr. E. Hatton's good fortune. I suppose the
marriage will now follow out of hand. Give my compliments to Miss Finch.
What time in March may we expect your return in? I begin to be very
tired of answering people's questions on that subject, and independent
of that, I shall be very glad to see you at home again, and then if we
can get Martha and shirk . . . who will be so happy as we?
I think of going to Ibthorp in about a fortnight. My eyes are pretty
well, I thank you, if you please.
_Wednesday, 23d._--I wish my dear Fanny many returns of this day, and
that she may on every return enjoy as much pleasure as she is now
receiving from her doll's-beds.
I have just heard from Charles, who is by this time at Deal. He is to be
second lieutenant, which pleases him very well. The "Endymion" is come
into the Downs, which pleases him likewise. He expects to be ordered to
Sheerness shortly, as the "Tamar" has never been refitted.
My father and mother made the same match for you last night, and are
very much pleased with it. _He_ is a beauty of my mother's.
                                            Yours affectionately,
                                                               JANE.
  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.
XIV.
                                    13 QUEEN'S SQUARE, Friday (May 17).
MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--Our journey yesterday went off exceedingly well;
nothing occurred to alarm or delay us. We found the roads in excellent
order, had very good horses all the way, and reached Devizes with ease
by four o'clock. I suppose John has told you in what manner we were
divided when we left Andover, and no alteration was afterwards made. At
Devizes we had comfortable rooms and a good dinner, to which we sat down
about five; amongst other things we had asparagus and a lobster, which
made me wish for you, and some cheesecakes, on which the children made
so delightful a supper as to endear the town of Devizes to them for a
long time.
