I am sorry that our dear Charles begins to feel the dignity of
ill-usage. My father will write to Admiral Gambier. He must have already
received so much satisfaction from his acquaintance and patronage of
Frank, that he will be delighted, I dare say, to have another of the
family introduced to him. I think it would be very right in Charles to
address Sir Thomas on the occasion, though I cannot approve of your
scheme of writing to him (which you communicated to me a few nights ago)
to request him to come home and convey you to Steventon. To do you
justice, however, you had some doubts of the propriety of such a measure
yourself.
I am very much obliged to my dear little George for his message,--for
his love at least; his duty, I suppose, was only in consequence of some
hint of my favorable intentions towards him from his father or mother. I
am sincerely rejoiced, however, that I ever was born, since it has been
the means of procuring him a dish of tea. Give my best love to him. . . .
_Wednesday._--I have changed my mind, and changed the trimmings of my
cap this morning; they are now such as you suggested. I felt as if I
should not prosper if I strayed from your directions, and I think it
makes me look more like Lady Conyngham now than it did before, which is
all that one lives for now. I believe I _shall_ make my new gown like my
robe, but the back of the latter is all in a piece with the tail, and
will seven yards enable me to copy it in that respect? . . .
I have just heard from Martha and Frank: his letter was written on
November 12. All well and nothing particular.
                                                 J. A.
  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.
X.
                                STEVENTON, Monday night (December 24).
MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I have got some pleasant news for you which I am
eager to communicate, and therefore begin my letter sooner, though I
shall not send it sooner than usual.
Admiral Gambier, in reply to my father's application, writes as follows:
"As it is usual to keep young officers in small vessels, it being most
proper on account of their inexperience, and it being also a situation
where they are more in the way of learning their duty, your son has been
continued in the 'Scorpion;' but I have mentioned to the Board of
Admiralty his wish to be in a frigate, and when a proper opportunity
offers and it is judged that he has taken his turn in a small ship, I
hope he will be removed. With regard to your son now in the 'London' I
am glad I can give you the assurance that his promotion is likely to
take place very soon, as Lord Spencer has been so good as to say he
would include him in an arrangement that he proposes making in a short
time relative to some promotions in that quarter."
