In fact no one has more clearly understood than Shelley the mission of
the dramatist and the meaning of the drama.
BALZAC IN ENGLISH
(_Pall Mall Gazette_, September 13, 1886.)
Many years ago, in a number of _All the Year Round_, Charles Dickens
complained that Balzac was very little read in England, and although
since then the public has become more familiar with the great
masterpieces of French fiction, still it may be doubted whether the
_Comedie Humaine_ is at all appreciated or understood by the general run
of novel readers.  It is really the greatest monument that literature has
produced in our century, and M. Taine hardly exaggerates when he says
that, after Shakespeare, Balzac is our most important magazine of
documents on human nature.  Balzac's aim, in fact, was to do for humanity
what Buffon had done for the animal creation.  As the naturalist studied
lions and tigers, so the novelist studied men and women.  Yet he was no
mere reporter.  Photography and _proces-verbal_ were not the essentials
of his method.  Observation gave him the facts of life, but his genius
converted facts into truths, and truths into truth.  He was, in a word, a
marvellous combination of the artistic temperament with the scientific
spirit.  The latter he bequeathed to his disciples; the former was
entirely his own.  The distinction between such a book as M. Zola's
_L'Assommoir_ and such a book as Balzac's _Illusions Perdues_ is the
distinction between unimaginative realism and imaginative reality.  'All
Balzac's characters,' said Baudelaire, 'are gifted with the same ardour
of life that animated himself.  All his fictions are as deeply coloured
as dreams.  Every mind is a weapon loaded to the muzzle with will.  The
very scullions have genius.'  He was, of course, accused of being
immoral.  Few writers who deal directly with life escape that charge.
His answer to the accusation was characteristic and conclusive.  'Whoever
contributes his stone to the edifice of ideas,' he wrote, 'whoever
proclaims an abuse, whoever sets his mark upon an evil to be abolished,
always passes for immoral.  If you are true in your portraits, if, by
dint of daily and nightly toil, you succeed in writing the most difficult
language in the world, the word immoral is thrown in your face.'  The
morals of the personages of the _Comedie Humaine_ are simply the morals
of the world around us.  They are part of the artist's subject-matter;
they are not part of his method.  If there be any need of censure it is
to life, not to literature, that it should be given.  Balzac, besides, is
essentially universal.  He sees life from every point of view.  He has no
preferences and no prejudices.  He does not try to prove anything.  He
feels that the spectacle of life contains its own secret.  'Il cree un
monde et se tait.'
And what a world it is!  What a panorama of passions!  What a pell-mell
of men and women!  It was said of Trollope that he increased the number
of our acquaintances without adding to our visiting list; but after the
_Comedie Humaine_ one begins to believe that the only real people are the
people who never existed.  Lucien de Rubempre, le Pere Goriot, Ursule
Mirouet, Marguerite Claes, the Baron Hulot, Madame Marneffe, le Cousin
Pons, De Marsay--all bring with them a kind of contagious illusion of
life.  They have a fierce vitality about them: their existence is fervent
and fiery-coloured; we not merely feel for them but we see them--they
dominate our fancy and defy scepticism.  A steady course of Balzac
reduces our living friends to shadows, and our acquaintances to the
shadows of shades.  Who would care to go out to an evening party to meet
Tomkins, the friend of one's boyhood, when one can sit at home with
Lucien de Rubempre?  It is pleasanter to have the entree to Balzac's
society than to receive cards from all the duchesses in Mayfair.
