And as she sang, all the tunny-fish came in from the deep to listen to
her, and the young Fisherman threw his nets round them and caught them,
and others he took with a spear.  And when his boat was well-laden, the
Mermaid would sink down into the sea, smiling at him.
Yet would she never come near him that he might touch her.  Oftentimes he
called to her and prayed of her, but she would not; and when he sought to
seize her she dived into the water as a seal might dive, nor did he see
her again that day.  And each day the sound of her voice became sweeter
to his ears.  So sweet was her voice that he forgot his nets and his
cunning, and had no care of his craft.  Vermilion-finned and with eyes of
bossy gold, the tunnies went by in shoals, but he heeded them not.  His
spear lay by his side unused, and his baskets of plaited osier were
empty.  With lips parted, and eyes dim with wonder, he sat idle in his
boat and listened, listening till the sea-mists crept round him, and the
wandering moon stained his brown limbs with silver.
And one evening he called to her, and said: ‘Little Mermaid, little
Mermaid, I love thee.  Take me for thy bridegroom, for I love thee.’
But the Mermaid shook her head.  ‘Thou hast a human soul,’ she answered.
‘If only thou wouldst send away thy soul, then could I love thee.’
And the young Fisherman said to himself, ‘Of what use is my soul to me?
I cannot see it.  I may not touch it.  I do not know it.  Surely I will
send it away from me, and much gladness shall be mine.’  And a cry of joy
broke from his lips, and standing up in the painted boat, he held out his
arms to the Mermaid.  ‘I will send my soul away,’ he cried, ‘and you
shall be my bride, and I will be thy bridegroom, and in the depth of the
sea we will dwell together, and all that thou hast sung of thou shalt
show me, and all that thou desirest I will do, nor shall our lives be
divided.’
And the little Mermaid laughed for pleasure and hid her face in her
hands.
‘But how shall I send my soul from me?’ cried the young Fisherman.  ‘Tell
me how I may do it, and lo! it shall be done.’
‘Alas!  I know not,’ said the little Mermaid: ‘the Sea-folk have no
souls.’  And she sank down into the deep, looking wistfully at him.
                                * * * * *
Now early on the next morning, before the sun was the span of a man’s
hand above the hill, the young Fisherman went to the house of the Priest
and knocked three times at the door.
The novice looked out through the wicket, and when he saw who it was, he
drew back the latch and said to him, ‘Enter.’
