And Avarice fled shrieking through the forest, and Death leaped upon his
red horse and galloped away, and his galloping was faster than the wind.
And out of the slime at the bottom of the valley crept dragons and
horrible things with scales, and the jackals came trotting along the
sand, sniffing up the air with their nostrils.
And the young King wept, and said: ‘Who were these men, and for what were
they seeking?’
‘For rubies for a king’s crown,’ answered one who stood behind him.
And the young King started, and, turning round, he saw a man habited as a
pilgrim and holding in his hand a mirror of silver.
And he grew pale, and said: ‘For what king?’
And the pilgrim answered: ‘Look in this mirror, and thou shalt see him.’
And he looked in the mirror, and, seeing his own face, he gave a great
cry and woke, and the bright sunlight was streaming into the room, and
from the trees of the garden and pleasaunce the birds were singing.
                                * * * * *
And the Chamberlain and the high officers of State came in and made
obeisance to him, and the pages brought him the robe of tissued gold, and
set the crown and the sceptre before him.
And the young King looked at them, and they were beautiful.  More
beautiful were they than aught that he had ever seen.  But he remembered
his dreams, and he said to his lords: ‘Take these things away, for I will
not wear them.’
And the courtiers were amazed, and some of them laughed, for they thought
that he was jesting.
But he spake sternly to them again, and said: ‘Take these things away,
and hide them from me.  Though it be the day of my coronation, I will not
wear them.  For on the loom of Sorrow, and by the white hands of Pain,
has this my robe been woven.  There is Blood in the heart of the ruby,
and Death in the heart of the pearl.’  And he told them his three dreams.
And when the courtiers heard them they looked at each other and
whispered, saying: ‘Surely he is mad; for what is a dream but a dream,
and a vision but a vision?  They are not real things that one should heed
them.  And what have we to do with the lives of those who toil for us?
Shall a man not eat bread till he has seen the sower, nor drink wine till
he has talked with the vinedresser?’
And the Chamberlain spake to the young King, and said, ‘My lord, I pray
thee set aside these black thoughts of thine, and put on this fair robe,
and set this crown upon thy head.  For how shall the people know that
thou art a king, if thou hast not a king’s raiment?’
And the young King looked at him.  ‘Is it so, indeed?’ he questioned.
‘Will they not know me for a king if I have not a king’s raiment?’
