CYRIL.  You have proved it to my dissatisfaction, which is better.  But
even admitting this strange imitative instinct in Life and Nature, surely
you would acknowledge that Art expresses the temper of its age, the
spirit of its time, the moral and social conditions that surround it, and
under whose influence it is produced.
VIVIAN.  Certainly not!  Art never expresses anything but itself.  This
is the principle of my new asthetics; and it is this, more than that
vital connection between form and substance, on which Mr. Pater dwells,
that makes music the type of all the arts.  Of course, nations and
individuals, with that healthy natural vanity which is the secret of
existence, are always under the impression that it is of them that the
Muses are talking, always trying to find in the calm dignity of
imaginative art some mirror of their own turbid passions, always
forgetting that the singer of life is not Apollo but Marsyas.  Remote
from reality, and with her eyes turned away from the shadows of the cave,
Art reveals her own perfection, and the wondering crowd that watches the
opening of the marvellous, many-petalled rose fancies that it is its own
history that is being told to it, its own spirit that is finding
expression in a new form.  But it is not so.  The highest art rejects the
burden of the human spirit, and gains more from a new medium or a fresh
material than she does from any enthusiasm for art, or from any lofty
passion, or from any great awakening of the human consciousness.  She
develops purely on her own lines.  She is not symbolic of any age.  It is
the ages that are her symbols.
Even those who hold that Art is representative of time and place and
people cannot help admitting that the more imitative an art is, the less
it represents to us the spirit of its age.  The evil faces of the Roman
emperors look out at us from the foul porphyry and spotted jasper in
which the realistic artists of the day delighted to work, and we fancy
that in those cruel lips and heavy sensual jaws we can find the secret of
the ruin of the Empire.  But it was not so.  The vices of Tiberius could
not destroy that supreme civilisation, any more than the virtues of the
Antonines could save it.  It fell for other, for less interesting
reasons.  The sibyls and prophets of the Sistine may indeed serve to
interpret for some that new birth of the emancipated spirit that we call
the Renaissance; but what do the drunken boors and bawling peasants of
Dutch art tell us about the great soul of Holland?  The more abstract,
the more ideal an art is, the more it reveals to us the temper of its
age.  If we wish to understand a nation by means of its art, let us look
at its architecture or its music.
CYRIL.  I quite agree with you there.  The spirit of an age may be best
expressed in the abstract ideal arts, for the spirit itself is abstract
and ideal.  Upon the other hand, for the visible aspect of an age, for
its look, as the phrase goes, we must of course go to the arts of
imitation.
