LADY WINDERMERE.  You are right—you are terribly right.  But where am I
to turn?  You said you would be my friend, Lord Darlington.—Tell me, what
am I to do?  Be my friend now.
LORD DARLINGTON.  Between men and women there is no friendship possible.
There is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship.  I love you—
LADY WINDERMERE.  No, no!  [_Rises_.]
LORD DARLINGTON.  Yes, I love you!  You are more to me than anything in
the whole world.  What does your husband give you?  Nothing.  Whatever is
in him he gives to this wretched woman, whom he has thrust into your
society, into your home, to shame you before every one.  I offer you my
life—
LADY WINDERMERE.  Lord Darlington!
LORD DARLINGTON.  My life—my whole life.  Take it, and do with it what
you will. . . . I love you—love you as I have never loved any living
thing.  From the moment I met you I loved you, loved you blindly,
adoringly, madly!  You did not know it then—you know it now!  Leave this
house to-night.  I won’t tell you that the world matters nothing, or the
world’s voice, or the voice of society.  They matter a great deal.  They
matter far too much.  But there are moments when one has to choose
between living one’s own life, fully, entirely, completely—or dragging
out some false, shallow, degrading existence that the world in its
hypocrisy demands.  You have that moment now.  Choose!  Oh, my love,
choose.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Moving slowly away from him_, _and looking at him
with startled eyes_.]  I have not the courage.
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Following her_.]  Yes; you have the courage.  There
may be six months of pain, of disgrace even, but when you no longer bear
his name, when you bear mine, all will be well.  Margaret, my love, my
wife that shall be some day—yes, my wife!  You know it!  What are you
now?  This woman has the place that belongs by right to you.  Oh! go—go
out of this house, with head erect, with a smile upon your lips, with
courage in your eyes.  All London will know why you did it; and who will
blame you?  No one.  If they do, what matter?  Wrong?  What is wrong?
It’s wrong for a man to abandon his wife for a shameless woman.  It is
wrong for a wife to remain with a man who so dishonours her.  You said
once you would make no compromise with things.  Make none now.  Be brave!
Be yourself!
LADY WINDERMERE.  I am afraid of being myself.  Let me think!  Let me
wait!  My husband may return to me.  [_Sits down on sofa_.]
LORD DARLINGTON.  And you would take him back!  You are not what I
thought you were.  You are just the same as every other woman.  You would
stand anything rather than face the censure of a world, whose praise you
would despise.  In a week you will be driving with this woman in the
Park.  She will be your constant guest—your dearest friend.  You would
endure anything rather than break with one blow this monstrous tie.  You
are right.  You have no courage; none!
