Lord Arthur seized the letter from her hand.  It ran as follows:—
                                                  THE DEANERY, CHICHESTER,
                                                             27_th_ _May_.
    My Dearest Aunt,
    Thank you so much for the flannel for the Dorcas Society, and also
    for the gingham.  I quite agree with you that it is nonsense their
    wanting to wear pretty things, but everybody is so Radical and
    irreligious nowadays, that it is difficult to make them see that they
    should not try and dress like the upper classes.  I am sure I don’t
    know what we are coming to.  As papa has often said in his sermons,
    we live in an age of unbelief.
    We have had great fun over a clock that an unknown admirer sent papa
    last Thursday.  It arrived in a wooden box from London, carriage
    paid, and papa feels it must have been sent by some one who had read
    his remarkable sermon, ‘Is Licence Liberty?’ for on the top of the
    clock was a figure of a woman, with what papa said was the cap of
    Liberty on her head.  I didn’t think it very becoming myself, but
    papa said it was historical, so I suppose it is all right.  Parker
    unpacked it, and papa put it on the mantelpiece in the library, and
    we were all sitting there on Friday morning, when just as the clock
    struck twelve, we heard a whirring noise, a little puff of smoke came
    from the pedestal of the figure, and the goddess of Liberty fell off,
    and broke her nose on the fender!  Maria was quite alarmed, but it
    looked so ridiculous, that James and I went off into fits of
    laughter, and even papa was amused.  When we examined it, we found it
    was a sort of alarum clock, and that, if you set it to a particular
    hour, and put some gunpowder and a cap under a little hammer, it went
    off whenever you wanted.  Papa said it must not remain in the
    library, as it made a noise, so Reggie carried it away to the
    schoolroom, and does nothing but have small explosions all day long.
    Do you think Arthur would like one for a wedding present?  I suppose
    they are quite fashionable in London.  Papa says they should do a
    great deal of good, as they show that Liberty can’t last, but must
    fall down.  Papa says Liberty was invented at the time of the French
    Revolution.  How awful it seems!
    I have now to go to the Dorcas, where I will read them your most
    instructive letter.  How true, dear aunt, your idea is, that in their
    rank of life they should wear what is unbecoming.  I must say it is
    absurd, their anxiety about dress, when there are so many more
    important things in this world, and in the next.  I am so glad your
    flowered poplin turned out so well, and that your lace was not torn.
    I am wearing my yellow satin, that you so kindly gave me, at the
    Bishop’s on Wednesday, and think it will look all right.  Would you
    have bows or not?  Jennings says that every one wears bows now, and
    that the underskirt should be frilled.  Reggie has just had another
    explosion, and papa has ordered the clock to be sent to the stables.
    I don’t think papa likes it so much as he did at first, though he is
    very flattered at being sent such a pretty and ingenious toy.  It
    shows that people read his sermons, and profit by them.
