Short loose trousers are in every way to be preferred to the tight knee-
breeches which often impede the proper circulation of the blood; and
finally, the soft leather boots which could be worn above or below the
knee, are more supple, and give consequently more freedom, than the stiff
Hessian which Mr. Huyshe so praises.  I say nothing about the question of
grace and picturesqueness, for I suppose that no one, not even Mr.
Huyshe, would prefer a maccaroni to a cavalier, a Lawrence to a Vandyke,
or the third George to the first Charles; but for ease, warmth and
comfort this seventeenth-century dress is infinitely superior to anything
that came after it, and I do not think it is excelled by any preceding
form of costume.  I sincerely trust that we may soon see in England some
national revival of it.
MORE RADICAL IDEAS UPON DRESS REFORM
(Pall Mall Gazette, November 11, 1884.)
I have been much interested at reading the large amount of correspondence
that has been called forth by my recent lecture on Dress.  It shows me
that the subject of dress reform is one that is occupying many wise and
charming people, who have at heart the principles of health, freedom, and
beauty in costume, and I hope that 'H. B. T.' and 'Materfamilias' will
have all the real influence which their letters--excellent letters both
of them--certainly deserve.
I turn first to Mr. Huyshe's second letter, and the drawing that
accompanies it; but before entering into any examination of the theory
contained in each, I think I should state at once that I have absolutely
no idea whether this gentleman wears his hair longer short, or his cuffs
back or forward, or indeed what he is like at all.  I hope he consults
his own comfort and wishes in everything which has to do with his dress,
and is allowed to enjoy that individualism in apparel which he so
eloquently claims for himself, and so foolishly tries to deny to others;
but I really could not take Mr. Wentworth Huyshe's personal appearance as
any intellectual basis for an investigation of the principles which
should guide the costume of a nation.  I am not denying the force, or
even the popularity, of the ''Eave arf a brick' school of criticism, but
I acknowledge it does not interest me.  The gamin in the gutter may be a
necessity, but the gamin in discussion is a nuisance.  So I will proceed
at once to the real point at issue, the value of the late
eighteenth-century costume over that worn in the second quarter of the
seventeenth: the relative merits, that is, of the principles contained in
each.  Now, as regards the eighteenth-century costume, Mr. Wentworth
Huyshe acknowledges that he has had no practical experience of it at all;
in fact, he makes a pathetic appeal to his friends to corroborate him in
his assertion, which I do not question for a moment, that he has never
been 'guilty of the eccentricity' of wearing himself the dress which he
proposes for general adoption by others.  There is something so naive and
so amusing about this last passage in Mr. Huyshe's letter that I am
really in doubt whether I am not doing him a wrong in regarding him as
having any serious, or sincere, views on the question of a possible
reform in dress; still, as irrespective of any attitude of Mr. Huyshe's
in the matter, the subject is in itself an interesting one, I think it is
worth continuing, particularly as I have myself worn this late eighteenth-
century dress many times, both in public and in private, and so may claim
to have a very positive right to speak on its comfort and suitability.
The particular form of the dress I wore was very similar to that given in
Mr. Godwin's handbook, from a print of Northcote's, and had a certain
elegance and grace about it which was very charming; still, I gave it up
for these reasons:--After a further consideration of the laws of dress I
saw that a doublet is a far simpler and easier garment than a coat and
waistcoat, and, if buttoned from the shoulder, far warmer also, and that
tails have no place in costume, except on some Darwinian theory of
heredity; from absolute experience in the matter I found that the
excessive tightness of knee-breeches is not really comfortable if one
wears them constantly; and, in fact, I satisfied myself that the dress is
not one founded on any real principles.  The broad-brimmed hat and loose
cloak, which, as my object was not, of course, historical accuracy but
modern ease, I had always worn with the costume in question, I have still
retained, and find them most comfortable.
