Men are such cowards. They outrage every law in the world and are afraid
of the world's tongue.
Wicked women bother one. Good women bore one. That is the only
difference between them.
To know the principles of the highest art is to know the principles of
all the arts.
I don't believe in the existence of Puritan women. I don't think there
is a woman in the world who would not be a little flattered if one made
love to her. It is that which makes women so irresistibly adorable.
When I am in trouble eating is the only thing that consoles me. Indeed,
when I am in really great trouble, as anyone who knows me intimately
will tell you, I refuse everything except food and drink.
When one is going to lead an entirely new life one requires regular and
wholesome meals.
The soul is born old, but grows young. That is the comedy of life. The
body is born young, and grows old. That is life's tragedy.
One can survive everything nowadays except death, and live down anything
except a good reputation.
The past is of no importance. The present is of no importance. It is
with the future that we have to deal. For the past is what men should
not have been. The present is what men ought not to be. The future is
what artists are.
Men become old, but they never become good.
By persistently remaining single a man converts himself into a permanent
public temptation. Men should be more careful; this very celibacy leads
weaker vessels astray.
I think that in practical life there is something about success, actual
success, that is a little unscrupulous, something about ambition that is
scrupulous always.
Every man of ambition has to fight his century with its own weapons.
What this century worships is wealth. The god of this century is wealth.
To succeed one must have wealth. At all costs one must have wealth.
I love scandals about other people, but scandals about myself don't
interest me. They have not got the charm of novelty.
Moderation is a fatal thing. Enough is as bad as a meal. More than
enough is as good as a feast.
The English can't stand a man who is always saying he is in the right,
but they are very fond of a man who admits he has been in the wrong. It
is one of the best things in them.
Life is simply a 'mauvais quart d'heure' made up of exquisite moments.
There is the same world for all of us, and good and evil, sin and
innocence, go through it hand in hand. To shut one's eyes to half of
life that one may live securely is as though one blinded oneself that
one might walk with more safety in a land of pit and precipice.
Married men are horribly tedious when they are good husbands and
abominably conceited when they are not.
Between men and women there is no friendship possible. There is passion,
enmity, worship, love, but no friendship.
