MAGDALEN WALKS
   THE little white clouds are racing over the sky,
      And the fields are strewn with the gold of the flower of March,
      The daffodil breaks under foot, and the tasselled larch
   Sways and swings as the thrush goes hurrying by.
   A delicate odour is borne on the wings of the morning breeze,
      The odour of deep wet grass, and of brown new-furrowed earth,
      The birds are singing for joy of the Spring’s glad birth,
   Hopping from branch to branch on the rocking trees.
   And all the woods are alive with the murmur and sound of Spring,
      And the rose-bud breaks into pink on the climbing briar,
      And the crocus-bed is a quivering moon of fire
   Girdled round with the belt of an amethyst ring.
   And the plane to the pine-tree is whispering some tale of love
      Till it rustles with laughter and tosses its mantle of green,
      And the gloom of the wych-elm’s hollow is lit with the iris sheen
   Of the burnished rainbow throat and the silver breast of a dove.
   See! the lark starts up from his bed in the meadow there,
      Breaking the gossamer threads and the nets of dew,
      And flashing adown the river, a flame of blue!
   The kingfisher flies like an arrow, and wounds the air.
ATHANASIA
   TO that gaunt House of Art which lacks for naught
      Of all the great things men have saved from Time,
   The withered body of a girl was brought
      Dead ere the world’s glad youth had touched its prime,
   And seen by lonely Arabs lying hid
   In the dim womb of some black pyramid.
   But when they had unloosed the linen band
      Which swathed the Egyptian’s body,—lo! was found
   Closed in the wasted hollow of her hand
      A little seed, which sown in English ground
   Did wondrous snow of starry blossoms bear
   And spread rich odours through our spring-tide air.
   With such strange arts this flower did allure
      That all forgotten was the asphodel,
   And the brown bee, the lily’s paramour,
      Forsook the cup where he was wont to dwell,
   For not a thing of earth it seemed to be,
   But stolen from some heavenly Arcady.
   In vain the sad narcissus, wan and white
      At its own beauty, hung across the stream,
   The purple dragon-fly had no delight
      With its gold dust to make his wings a-gleam,
   Ah! no delight the jasmine-bloom to kiss,
   Or brush the rain-pearls from the eucharis.
   For love of it the passionate nightingale
      Forgot the hills of Thrace, the cruel king,
   And the pale dove no longer cared to sail
      Through the wet woods at time of blossoming,
   But round this flower of Egypt sought to float,
   With silvered wing and amethystine throat.
   While the hot sun blazed in his tower of blue
      A cooling wind crept from the land of snows,
   And the warm south with tender tears of dew
      Drenched its white leaves when Hesperos up-rose
   Amid those sea-green meadows of the sky
   On which the scarlet bars of sunset lie.
