DANTE THE LIVING GUIDE
There is no mood or passion that Art cannot give us, and those of us who
have discovered her secret can settle beforehand what our experiences are
going to be.  We can choose our day and select our hour.  We can say to
ourselves, 'To-morrow, at dawn, we shall walk with grave Virgil through
the valley of the shadow of death,' and lo! the dawn finds us in the
obscure wood, and the Mantuan stands by our side.  We pass through the
gate of the legend fatal to hope, and with pity or with joy behold the
horror of another world.  The hypocrites go by, with their painted faces
and their cowls of gilded lead.  Out of the ceaseless winds that drive
them, the carnal look at us, and we watch the heretic rending his flesh,
and the glutton lashed by the rain.  We break the withered branches from
the tree in the grove of the Harpies, and each dull-hued poisonous twig
bleeds with red blood before us, and cries aloud with bitter cries.  Out
of a horn of fire Odysseus speaks to us, and when from his sepulchre of
flame the great Ghibelline rises, the pride that triumphs over the
torture of that bed becomes ours for a moment.  Through the dim purple
air fly those who have stained the world with the beauty of their sin,
and in the pit of loathsome disease, dropsy-stricken and swollen of body
into the semblance of a monstrous lute, lies Adamo di Brescia, the coiner
of false coin.  He bids us listen to his misery; we stop, and with dry
and gaping lips he tells us how he dreams day and night of the brooks of
clear water that in cool dewy channels gush down the green Casentine
hills.  Sinon, the false Greek of Troy, mocks at him.  He smites him in
the face, and they wrangle.  We are fascinated by their shame, and
loiter, till Virgil chides us and leads us away to that city turreted by
giants where great Nimrod blows his horn.  Terrible things are in store
for us, and we go to meet them in Dante's raiment and with Dante's heart.
We traverse the marshes of the Styx, and Argenti swims to the boat
through the slimy waves.  He calls to us, and we reject him.  When we
hear the voice of his agony we are glad, and Virgil praises us for the
bitterness of our scorn.  We tread upon the cold crystal of Cocytus, in
which traitors stick like straws in glass.  Our foot strikes against the
head of Bocca.  He will not tell us his name, and we tear the hair in
handfuls from the screaming skull.  Alberigo prays us to break the ice
upon his face that he may weep a little.  We pledge our word to him, and
when he has uttered his dolorous tale we deny the word that we have
spoken, and pass from him; such cruelty being courtesy indeed, for who
more base than he who has mercy for the condemned of God?  In the jaws of
Lucifer we see the man who sold Christ, and in the jaws of Lucifer the
men who slew Caesar.  We tremble, and come forth to re-behold the
stars.--_The Critic as Artist_.
