THE LIMITATIONS OF GENIUS
The appeal of all Art is simply to the artistic temperament.  Art does
not address herself to the specialist.  Her claim is that she is
universal, and that in all her manifestations she is one.  Indeed, so far
from its being true that the artist is the best judge of art, a really
great artist can never judge of other people's work at all, and can
hardly, in fact, judge of his own.  That very concentration of vision
that makes a man an artist, limits by its sheer intensity his faculty of
fine appreciation.  The energy of creation hurries him blindly on to his
own goal.  The wheels of his chariot raise the dust as a cloud around
him.  The gods are hidden from each other.  They can recognise their
worshippers.  That is all . . . Wordsworth saw in _Endymion_ merely a
pretty piece of Paganism, and Shelley, with his dislike of actuality, was
deaf to Wordsworth's message, being repelled by its form, and Byron, that
great passionate human incomplete creature, could appreciate neither the
poet of the cloud nor the poet of the lake, and the wonder of Keats was
hidden from him.  The realism of Euripides was hateful to Sophokles.
Those droppings of warm tears had no music for him.  Milton, with his
sense of the grand style, could not understand the method of Shakespeare,
any more than could Sir Joshua the method of Gainsborough.  Bad artists
always admire each other's work.  They call it being large-minded and
free from prejudice.  But a truly great artist cannot conceive of life
being shown, or beauty fashioned, under any conditions other than those
that he has selected.  Creation employs all its critical faculty within
its own sphere.  It may not use it in the sphere that belongs to others.
It is exactly because a man cannot do a thing that he is the proper judge
of it.--_The Critic as Artist_.
WANTED A NEW BACKGROUND
He who would stir us now by fiction must either give us an entirely new
background, or reveal to us the soul of man in its innermost workings.
The first is for the moment being done for us by Mr. Rudyard Kipling.  As
one turns over the pages of his _Plain Tales from the Hills_, one feels
as if one were seated under a palm-tree reading life by superb flashes of
vulgarity.  The bright colours of the bazaars dazzle one's eyes.  The
jaded, second-rate Anglo-Indians are in exquisite incongruity with their
surroundings.  The mere lack of style in the story-teller gives an odd
journalistic realism to what he tells us.  From the point of view of
literature Mr. Kipling is a genius who drops his aspirates.  From the
point of view of life, he is a reporter who knows vulgarity better than
any one has ever known it.  Dickens knew its clothes and its comedy.  Mr.
Kipling knows its essence and its seriousness.  He is our first authority
on the second-rate, and has seen marvellous things through keyholes, and
his backgrounds are real works of art.  As for the second condition, we
have had Browning, and Meredith is with us.  But there is still much to
be done in the sphere of introspection.  People sometimes say that
fiction is getting too morbid.  As far as psychology is concerned, it has
never been morbid enough.  We have merely touched the surface of the
soul, that is all.  In one single ivory cell of the brain there are
stored away things more marvellous and more terrible than even they have
dreamed of, who, like the author of _Le Rouge et le Noir_, have sought to
track the soul into its most secret places, and to make life confess its
dearest sins.  Still, there is a limit even to the number of untried
backgrounds, and it is possible that a further development of the habit
of introspection may prove fatal to that creative faculty to which it
seeks to supply fresh material.  I myself am inclined to think that
creation is doomed.  It springs from too primitive, too natural an
impulse.  However this may be, it is certain that the subject-matter at
the disposal of creation is always diminishing, while the subject-matter
of criticism increases daily.  There are always new attitudes for the
mind, and new points of view.  The duty of imposing form upon chaos does
not grow less as the world advances.  There was never a time when
Criticism was more needed than it is now.  It is only by its means that
Humanity can become conscious of the point at which it has arrived.--_The
Critic as Artist_.
