THE INFLUENCE OF THE IMPRESSIONISTS ON CLIMATE
Where, if not from the Impressionists, do we get those wonderful brown
fogs that come creeping down our streets, blurring the gas-lamps and
changing the houses into monstrous shadows?  To whom, if not to them and
their master, do we owe the lovely silver mists that brood over our
river, and turn to faint forms of fading grace curved bridge and swaying
barge?  The extraordinary change that has taken place in the climate of
London during the last ten years is entirely due to a particular school
of Art.  You smile.  Consider the matter from a scientific or a
metaphysical point of view, and you will find that I am right.  For what
is Nature?  Nature is no great mother who has borne us.  She is our
creation.  It is in our brain that she quickens to life.  Things are
because we see them, and what we see, and how we see it, depends on the
Arts that have influenced us.  To look at a thing is very different from
seeing a thing.  One does not see anything until one sees its beauty.
Then, and then only, does it come into existence.  At present, people see
fogs, not because there are fogs, but because poets and painters have
taught them the mysterious loveliness of such effects.  There may have
been fogs for centuries in London.  I dare say there were.  But no one
saw them, and so we do not know anything about them.  They did not exist
till Art had invented them.  Now, it must be admitted, fogs are carried
to excess.  They have become the mere mannerism of a clique, and the
exaggerated realism of their method gives dull people bronchitis.  Where
the cultured catch an effect, the uncultured catch cold.  And so, let us
be humane, and invite Art to turn her wonderful eyes elsewhere.  She has
done so already, indeed.  That white quivering sunlight that one sees now
in France, with its strange blotches of mauve, and its restless violet
shadows, is her latest fancy, and, on the whole, Nature reproduces it
quite admirably.  Where she used to give us Corots and Daubignys, she
gives us now exquisite Monets and entrancing Pissaros.  Indeed there are
moments, rare, it is true, but still to be observed from time to time,
when Nature becomes absolutely modern.  Of course she is not always to be
relied upon.  The fact is that she is in this unfortunate position.  Art
creates an incomparable and unique effect, and, having done so, passes on
to other things.  Nature, upon the other hand, forgetting that imitation
can be made the sincerest form of insult, keeps on repeating this effect
until we all become absolutely wearied of it.  Nobody of any real
culture, for instance, ever talks nowadays about the beauty of a sunset.
Sunsets are quite old-fashioned.  They belong to the time when Turner was
the last note in art.  To admire them is a distinct sign of provincialism
of temperament.  Upon the other hand they go on.--_The Decay of Lying_.
