Cecily.  I keep a diary in order to enter the wonderful secrets of my
life.  If I didn't write them down, I should probably forget all about
them.
Miss Prism.  Memory, my dear Cecily, is the diary that we all carry about
with us.
Cecily.  Yes, but it usually chronicles the things that have never
happened, and couldn't possibly have happened.  I believe that Memory is
responsible for nearly all the three-volume novels that Mudie sends us.
Miss Prism.  Do not speak slightingly of the three-volume novel, Cecily.
I wrote one myself in earlier days.
Cecily.  Did you really, Miss Prism?  How wonderfully clever you are!  I
hope it did not end happily?  I don't like novels that end happily.  They
depress me so much.
Miss Prism.  The good ended happily, and the bad unhappily.  That is what
Fiction means.
Cecily.  I suppose so.  But it seems very unfair.  And was your novel
ever published?
Miss Prism.  Alas! no.  The manuscript unfortunately was abandoned.
[Cecily starts.]  I use the word in the sense of lost or mislaid.  To
your work, child, these speculations are profitless.
Cecily.  [Smiling.]  But I see dear Dr. Chasuble coming up through the
garden.
Miss Prism.  [Rising and advancing.]  Dr. Chasuble!  This is indeed a
pleasure.
[Enter Canon Chasuble.]
Chasuble.  And how are we this morning?  Miss Prism, you are, I trust,
well?
Cecily.  Miss Prism has just been complaining of a slight headache.  I
think it would do her so much good to have a short stroll with you in the
Park, Dr. Chasuble.
Miss Prism.  Cecily, I have not mentioned anything about a headache.
Cecily.  No, dear Miss Prism, I know that, but I felt instinctively that
you had a headache.  Indeed I was thinking about that, and not about my
German lesson, when the Rector came in.
Chasuble.  I hope, Cecily, you are not inattentive.
Cecily.  Oh, I am afraid I am.
Chasuble.  That is strange.  Were I fortunate enough to be Miss Prism's
pupil, I would hang upon her lips.  [Miss Prism glares.]  I spoke
metaphorically.--My metaphor was drawn from bees.  Ahem!  Mr. Worthing, I
suppose, has not returned from town yet?
Miss Prism.  We do not expect him till Monday afternoon.
Chasuble.  Ah yes, he usually likes to spend his Sunday in London.  He is
not one of those whose sole aim is enjoyment, as, by all accounts, that
unfortunate young man his brother seems to be.  But I must not disturb
Egeria and her pupil any longer.
Miss Prism.  Egeria?  My name is Laetitia, Doctor.
Chasuble.  [Bowing.]  A classical allusion merely, drawn from the Pagan
authors.  I shall see you both no doubt at Evensong?
Miss Prism.  I think, dear Doctor, I will have a stroll with you.  I find
I have a headache after all, and a walk might do it good.
Chasuble.  With pleasure, Miss Prism, with pleasure.  We might go as far
as the schools and back.
Miss Prism.  That would be delightful.  Cecily, you will read your
Political Economy in my absence.  The chapter on the Fall of the Rupee
you may omit.  It is somewhat too sensational.  Even these metallic
problems have their melodramatic side.
