Cecily.  I think your frankness does you great credit, Ernest.  If you
will allow me, I will copy your remarks into my diary.  [Goes over to
table and begins writing in diary.]
Algernon.  Do you really keep a diary?  I'd give anything to look at it.
May I?
Cecily.  Oh no.  [Puts her hand over it.]  You see, it is simply a very
young girl's record of her own thoughts and impressions, and consequently
meant for publication.  When it appears in volume form I hope you will
order a copy.  But pray, Ernest, don't stop.  I delight in taking down
from dictation.  I have reached 'absolute perfection'.  You can go on.  I
am quite ready for more.
Algernon.  [Somewhat taken aback.]  Ahem!  Ahem!
Cecily.  Oh, don't cough, Ernest.  When one is dictating one should speak
fluently and not cough.  Besides, I don't know how to spell a cough.
[Writes as Algernon speaks.]
Algernon.  [Speaking very rapidly.]  Cecily, ever since I first looked
upon your wonderful and incomparable beauty, I have dared to love you
wildly, passionately, devotedly, hopelessly.
Cecily.  I don't think that you should tell me that you love me wildly,
passionately, devotedly, hopelessly.  Hopelessly doesn't seem to make
much sense, does it?
Algernon.  Cecily!
[Enter Merriman.]
Merriman.  The dog-cart is waiting, sir.
Algernon.  Tell it to come round next week, at the same hour.
Merriman.  [Looks at Cecily, who makes no sign.]  Yes, sir.
[Merriman retires.]
Cecily.  Uncle Jack would be very much annoyed if he knew you were
staying on till next week, at the same hour.
Algernon.  Oh, I don't care about Jack.  I don't care for anybody in the
whole world but you.  I love you, Cecily.  You will marry me, won't you?
Cecily.  You silly boy!  Of course.  Why, we have been engaged for the
last three months.
Algernon.  For the last three months?
Cecily.  Yes, it will be exactly three months on Thursday.
Algernon.  But how did we become engaged?
Cecily.  Well, ever since dear Uncle Jack first confessed to us that he
had a younger brother who was very wicked and bad, you of course have
formed the chief topic of conversation between myself and Miss Prism.  And
of course a man who is much talked about is always very attractive.  One
feels there must be something in him, after all.  I daresay it was
foolish of me, but I fell in love with you, Ernest.
Algernon.  Darling!  And when was the engagement actually settled?
Cecily.  On the 14th of February last.  Worn out by your entire ignorance
of my existence, I determined to end the matter one way or the other, and
after a long struggle with myself I accepted you under this dear old tree
here.  The next day I bought this little ring in your name, and this is
the little bangle with the true lover's knot I promised you always to
wear.
Algernon.  Did I give you this?  It's very pretty, isn't it?
Cecily.  Yes, you've wonderfully good taste, Ernest.  It's the excuse
I've always given for your leading such a bad life.  And this is the box
in which I keep all your dear letters.  [Kneels at table, opens box, and
produces letters tied up with blue ribbon.]
