PRES. (_to MICHAEL_). But you will be seized, Michael.
MICH. I think not. I will wear the uniform of the Imperial Guard, and
the Colonel on duty is one of us. It is on the first floor, you
remember; so I can take a long shot.
PRES. Shall I tell the brethren?
[22]MICH. Not a word, not a word! There is a traitor amongst us.
VERA. Come, are these the proclamations? Yes, they will do; yes, they
will do. Send five hundred to Kiev and Odessa and Novgorod, five
hundred to Warsaw, and have twice the number distributed among the
Southern Provinces, though these dull Russian peasants care little for
our proclamations, and less for our martyrdoms. When the blow is struck,
it must be from the town, not from the country.
MICH. Ay, and by the sword not by the goose-quill.
VERA. Where are the letters from Poland?
PROF. Here.
VERA. Unhappy Poland! The eagles of Russia have fed on her heart. We
must not forget our brothers there.[22]
PRES. Is this true, Michael?
MICH. Ay, I stake my life on it.
PRES. [23]Let the doors be locked, then.[23] Alexis Ivanacievitch
entered on our roll of the brothers as a Student of the School of
Medicine at Moscow. Why did you not tell us of this bloody scheme[24] of
martial law?
ALEX. I, President?
MICH. Ay, you! You knew it, none better. Such weapons as these are not
forged in a day. Why did you not tell us of it? A week ago there had
been time [25]to lay the mine, to raise the barricade, to strike one
blow at least for liberty.[25] But now the hour is past. It is too late,
[26]it is too late![26] Why did you keep it a secret from us, I say?
ALEX. Now by the hand of freedom, Michael, my brother, you wrong me. I
knew nothing of this hideous law. By my soul, my brothers, I knew not of
it! How should I know?
MICH. Because you are a traitor! Where did you go when you left us the
night of our last meeting here?
[27]ALEX. To mine own house, Michael.[27]
MICH. Liar! I was on your track. You left here an hour after midnight.
Wrapped in a large cloak, you crossed the river in a boat a mile below
the second bridge, and gave the ferryman a gold piece, you, the poor
student of medicine! You doubled back twice, and hid in an archway so
long that I had almost made up my mind to stab you at once, only that I
am fond of hunting. So! you thought that you had baffled all pursuit,
did you? Fool! I am a bloodhound that never loses the scent. I followed
you from street to street. At last I saw you pass swiftly across the
Place St. Isaac, whisper to the guards the secret password, enter the
palace by a private door with your own key.
CONSPIRATORS. The palace!
VERA. Alexis!
MICH. I waited. All through the dreary watches of our long Russian night
I waited, that I might kill you with your Judas hire still hot in your
hand. But you never came out; you never left that palace at all. I saw
the blood-red sun rise through the yellow fog over the murky town; I saw
a new day of oppression dawn on Russia; but you never came out. So you
pass nights in the palace, do you? You know the password for the guards!
you have a key to a secret door. Oh, you are a spy--you are a spy! I
never trusted you, [28]with your soft white hands, your curled hair,
your pretty graces.[28] You have no mark of suffering about you; you
cannot be of the people. You are a spy--[29]a spy--traitor.[29]
