PRES. O God! if he sees it is Vera, we are all lost!
GEN. No coquetting, my girl. Come, unmask, I say, or I shall tell my
guards to do it for you.
ALEX. Stand back, I say, General Kotemkin!
GEN. Who are you, fellow, that talk with such a tripping tongue to your
betters? (_ALEXIS takes his mask off_.) His Imperial Highness the
Czarevitch!
OMNES. The Czarevitch! [36]It is all over![36]
[37]PRES. He will give us up to the soldiers.[37]
MICH. (_to VERA_). Why did you not let me kill him? Come, we must fight
to the death for it.
VERA. Peace! he will not betray us.
ALEX. A whim of mine, General! You know how my father keeps me from the
world and imprisons me in the palace. I should really be bored to death
if I could not get out at night in disguise sometimes, and have some
romantic adventure in town. I fell in with these honest folks a few
hours ago.
GEN. But, your Highness--
ALEX. Oh, they are excellent actors, I assure you. If you had come in
ten minutes ago, you would have witnessed a most interesting scene.
GEN. Actors, are they, Prince?
ALEX. Ay, and very ambitious actors, too. They only care to play before
kings.
GEN. I' faith, your Highness, I was in hopes I had made a good haul of
Nihilists.[38]
ALEX. Nihilists in Moscow, General! with you as head of the police?
Impossible!
GEN. So I always tell your Imperial father. But I heard at the council
to-day that that woman Vera Sabouroff, the head of them, had been seen
in this very city. The Emperor's face turned as white as the snow
outside. I think I never saw such terror in any man before.
ALEX. She is a dangerous woman, then, this Vera Sabouroff?
GEN. The most dangerous in all Europe.
ALEX. Did you ever see her, General?
GEN. Why, five years ago, when I was a plain Colonel, I remember her,
your Highness, a common waiting girl in an inn. If I had known then what
she was going to turn out, I would have flogged her to death on the
roadside. She is not a woman at all; she is a sort of devil! For the
last eighteen months I have been hunting her, and caught sight of her
once last September outside Odessa.
ALEX. How did you let her go, General?
GEN. I was by myself, and she shot one of my horses just as I was
gaining on her. If I see her again I shan't miss my chance. The Emperor
has put twenty thousand roubles on her head.
ALEX. I hope you will get it, General; but meanwhile you are frightening
these honest people out of their wits, and disturbing the tragedy. Good
night, General.
GEN. Yes; but I should like to see their faces, your Highness.
ALEX. No, General; you must not ask that; you know how these gipsies
hate to be stared at.
