END OF PROLOGUE.
ACT I.[1]
SCENE.--_99 Rue Tchernavaya, Moscow. A large garret lit by oil lamps
hung from ceiling. Some masked men standing silent and apart from one
another. A man in a scarlet mask is writing at a table. Door at back.
Man in yellow with drawn sword at it. Knocks heard. Figures in cloaks
and masks enter._
_Password._ Per crucem ad lucem.
_Answer._ Per sanguinem ad libertatem.
(_Clock strikes. CONSPIRATORS form a semicircle in the middle of the
stage._)
[2]PRESIDENT. What is the word?
FIRST CONSP. Nabat.
PRES. The answer?
SECOND CONSP. Kalit.
PRES. What hour is it?
THIRD CONSP. The hour to suffer.
PRES. What day?
FOURTH CONSP. The day of oppression.
PRES. What year?
FIFTH CONSP. Since the Revolution of France, the ninth year.[2]
PRES. How many are we in number?
SIXTH CONSP. Ten, nine, and three.
PRES. The Galilaean had less to conquer the world; but what is our
mission?
SEVENTH CONSP. To give freedom.
PRES. Our creed?
EIGHTH CONSP. To annihilate.
PRES. Our duty?
NINTH CONSP. To obey.
PRES. Brothers, the questions have been answered well. There are none
but Nihilists present. Let us see each other's faces. (_The CONSPIRATORS
unmask._) Michael, recite the oath.
MICHAEL. To strangle whatever nature is in us; neither to love nor to be
loved, neither to pity nor to be pitied, neither to marry nor to be
given in marriage, till the end is come; to stab secretly by night; to
drop poison in the glass; to set father against son, and husband against
wife; without fear, without hope, without future, to suffer, to
annihilate, to revenge.
PRES. Are we all agreed?
CONSPIRATORS. We are all agreed. (_They disperse in various directions
about the stage._)
PRES. 'Tis after the hour, Michael, and she is not yet here.
MICH. Would that she were! We can do little without her.
ALEXIS. She cannot have been seized, President? but the police are on
her track, I know.
MICH. You always seem to know a good deal about the movements of the
police in Moscow--too much for an honest conspirator.
PRES. If those dogs have caught her, [3]the red flag of the people will
float on a barricade in[3] every street till we find her! It was foolish
of her to go to the Grand Duke's ball. I told her so, but she said she
wanted to see the Czar and all his cursed brood face to face once.
ALEXIS. Gone to the State ball?
MICH. I have no fear. She is as hard to capture as a she-wolf is, and
twice as dangerous; besides, she is well disguised. But is there any
news from the Palace to-night, President? What is that bloody[4] despot
doing now besides torturing his only son? Have any of you seen him? One
hears strange stories about him. They say he loves the people; but a
king's son never does that. You cannot breed them like that.
PRES. Since he came back from abroad a year ago his father has kept him
in close prison in his palace.
