When Mr. Jermyn was ushered into the breakfast-room the next morning,
Harold found him surprisingly little altered by the fifteen years. He
was gray, but still remarkably handsome; fat, but tall enough to bear
that trial to man's dignity. There was as strong a suggestion of
toilette about him as if he had been five-and-twenty instead of nearly
sixty. He chose always to dress in black, and was especially addicted to
black satin waistcoats, which carried out the general sleekness of his
appearance; and this, together with his white, fat, but
beautifully-shaped hands, which he was in the habit of rubbing gently on
his entrance into a room, gave him very much the air of a lady's
physician. Harold remembered with some amusement his uncle's dislike of
those conspicuous hands; but as his own were soft and dimpled, and as he
too was given to the innocent practice of rubbing those members, his
suspicions were not yet deepened.
"I congratulate you, Mrs. Transome," said Jermyn, with a soft and
deferential smile, "all the more," he added, turning toward Harold, "now
I have the pleasure of actually seeing your son. I am glad to perceive
that an Eastern climate has not been unfavorable to him."
"No," said Harold, shaking Jermyn's hand carelessly, and speaking with
more than his usual brusqueness, "the question is, whether the English
climate will agree with me. It's deuced shifting and damp; and as for
the food, it would be the finest thing in the world for this country if
the southern cooks would change their religion, get persecuted, and fly
to England, as the old silk-weavers did."
"There are plenty of foreign cooks for those who are rich enough to pay
for them, I suppose," said Mrs. Transome, "but they are unpleasant
people to have about one's house."
"Gad! I don't think so," said Harold.
"The old servants are sure to quarrel with them."
"That's no concern of mine. The old servants will have to put up with my
man Dominic, who will show them how to cook and do everything else in a
way that will rather astonish them."
"Old people are not so easily taught to change all their ways, Harold."
"Well, they can give up and watch the young ones," said Harold, thinking
only at that moment of old Mrs. Hickes and Dominic. But his mother was
not thinking of them only.
"You have a valuable servant, it seems," said Jermyn, who understood
Mrs. Transome better than her son did, and wished to smoothen the
current of their dialogue.
"Oh, one of those wonderful southern fellows that make one's life easy.
He's of no country in particular. I don't know whether he's most of a
Jew, a Greek, an Italian, or a Spaniard. He speaks five or six
languages, one as well as another. He's cook, valet, major-domo, and
secretary all in one; and what's more, he's an affectionate fellow--I
can trust to his attachment. That's a sort of human specimen that
doesn't grow here in England, I fancy. I should have been badly off if I
could not have brought Dominic."
