After an interval, in which his wife stood perfectly still, observing
him, he began to put back the drawers in their places in the row of
cabinets which extended under the bookshelves at one end of the
library. When they were all put back and closed, Mrs. Transome turned
away, and the frightened old man seated himself with Nimrod the
retriever on an ottoman. Peeping at him again, a few minutes after, she
saw that he had his arm round Nimrod's neck, and was uttering his
thoughts to the dog in a loud whisper, as little children do to any
object near them when they believe themselves unwatched.
At last the sound of the church-bell reached Mrs. Transome's ear, and
she knew that before long the sound of wheels must be within hearing;
but she did not at once start up and walk to the entrance-door. She sat
still, quivering and listening; her lips became pale, her hands were
cold and trembling. Was her son really coming? She was far beyond fifty;
and since her early gladness in this best-loved boy, the harvest of her
life had been scanty. Could it be that now--when her hair was gray, when
sight had become one of the day's fatigues, when her young
accomplishments seemed almost ludicrous, like the tone of her first
harpsichord and the words of the song long browned with age--she was
going to reap an assured joy? to feel that the doubtful deeds of her
life were justified by the result, since a kind Providence had
sanctioned them?--to be no longer tacitly pitied by her neighbors for
her lack of money, her imbecile husband, her graceless eldest-born, and
the loneliness of her life; but to have at her side a rich, clever,
possibly a tender, son? Yes; but there were the fifteen years of
separation, and all that had happened in that long time to throw her
into the background of her son's memory and affection. And yet--did not
men sometimes become more filial in their feeling when experience had
mellowed them, and they had themselves become fathers? Still, if Mrs.
Transome had expected only her son, she would have trembled less; she
expected a little grandson also: and there were reasons why she had not
been enraptured when her son had written to her only when he was on the
eve of returning that he already had an heir born to him.
But the facts must be accepted as they stood, and, after all, the chief
thing was to have her son back again. Such pride, such affection, such
hopes as she cherished in this fifty-sixth year of her life, must find
their gratification in him--or nowhere. Once more she glanced at the
portrait. The young brown eyes seemed to dwell on her pleasantly; but,
turning from it with a sort of impatience, and saying aloud, "Of course
he will be altered!" she rose almost with difficulty, and walked more
slowly than before across the hall to the entrance-door.
