[Sidenote: Letter to John Blackwood, 30th Dec. 1867.]
I am much obliged to you for your handsome check, and still more
gratified that the "Address" has been a satisfaction to you.
I am very glad to hear of your projected visit to town, and shall
hope to have a good batch of MS. for you to carry back. Mr. Lewes is
in an unprecedented state of delight with the poem, now that he is
reading it with close care. He says he is astonished that he can't
find more faults. He is especially pleased with the sense of variety
it gives; and this testimony is worth the more because he urged me to
put the poem by (in 1865) on the ground of monotony. He is really
exultant about it now, and after what you have said to me I know this
will please you.
Hearty wishes that the coming year may bring you much good, and that
the "Spanish Gypsy" may contribute a little to that end.
_SUMMARY._
JANUARY, 1867, TO DECEMBER, 1867.
     Letter to Madame Bodichon from Bordeaux--Madame
     Mohl--Scherer--Renan--Letter to Mrs. Congreve from
     Biarritz--Delight in Comte's "Politique"--Gratitude to him
     for illumination--Learning Spanish--Papers in the _Revue des
     Deux Mondes_, by Saveney--Letter to Madame Bodichon from
     Barcelona--Description of
     scenery--Pampeluna--Saragossa--Lerida--Letter to F. Harrison
     from Granada--The vindication of the _law_ in "Felix
     Holt"--Spanish travelling--Letter to John Blackwood from
     Granada--Alicante--Granada--Letter to Mrs. Congreve from
     Biarritz--Delight of the journey--Madrid pictures--Return to
     the Priory--Letter to John Blackwood--"Felix Holt"--Cheap
     edition of novels--"Spanish Gypsy"--Dr. Congreve's Lectures
     on Positivism--Letter to Miss Hennell--Historical Portraits
     at South Kensington--Letter to Mrs. Peter Taylor--Women's
     claims--Comte's position--Fortnight's Visit to the Isle of
     Wight--Letter of adieu to Mrs. Congreve--Two months' visit to
     North Germany--Return to England--Reading on Spanish
     subjects--Mr. Lewes and Mr. Spencer at
     Weybridge--Acquaintance with Mrs. Cross and family--Letter to
     Miss Hennell--Deutsch's article on the Talmud--Letter to
     Blackwood about putting "Spanish Gypsy" in type--"Address to
     Workingmen, by Felix Holt"--Letter to Miss Hennell--Girton
     College--Letter to Madame Bodichon--The higher education of
     women--Letter to John Blackwood on the "Address"--Christmas
     day at the Priory--Letter to Miss Hennell--Visit of Mr. Lewes
     to Bonn--Letter to Mrs. Congreve--Depression--Letter to John
     Blackwood--Mr. Lewes on "Spanish Gypsy."
FOOTNOTES:
[1] "An Old Story and Other Poems," by Elizabeth D. Cross.
[2] "Address to the Working Men."
[3] In the "Address to the Working Men."
CHAPTER XV.
[Sidenote: Letter to Mrs. Congreve, 9th Jan. 1868.]
There is a good genius presiding over your gifts--they are so
felicitous. You always give me something of which I have felt the want
beforehand, and can use continually. It is eminently so with my pretty
mittens; there was no little appendage I wanted more; and they are
just as warm at the wrist as I could have wished them to be--warming,
too, as a mark of affection at a time when all cheering things are
doubly welcome.
Mr. Lewes came home last night, and you may imagine that I am glad.
Between the bad weather, bad health, and solitude, I have been so far
unlike the wicked that I have not flourished like the green bay-tree.
To make amends, he--Mr. Lewes, not the wicked--has had a brilliant
time, gained great instruction, and seen some admirable men, who have
received him warmly.
