"Why, Niccolo," he said, in an injured tone, "I've heard you sing to
another tune than that, often enough, when you've been laying down the
law at San Gallo on a festa.  I've heard you say yourself, that a man
wasn't a mill-wheel, to be on the grind, grind, as long as he was
driven, and then stick in his place without stirring when the water was
low.  And you're as fond of your vote as any man in Florence--ay, and
I've heard you say, if Lorenzo--"
"Yes, yes," said Niccolo.  "Don't you be bringing up my speeches again
after you've swallowed them, and handing them about as if they were none
the worse.  I vote and I speak when there's any use in it: if there's
hot metal on the anvil, I lose no time before I strike; but I don't
spend good hours in tinkling on cold iron, or in standing on the
pavement as thou dost, Goro, with snout upward, like a pig under an
oak-tree.  And as for Lorenzo--dead and gone before his time--he was a
man who had an eye for curious iron-work; and if anybody says he wanted
to make himself a tyrant, I say, `_Sia_; I'll not deny which way the
wind blows when every man can see the weathercock.'  But that only means
that Lorenzo was a crested hawk, and there are plenty of hawks without
crests whose claws and beaks are as good for tearing.  Though if there
was any chance of a real reform, so that Marzocco [the stone Lion,
emblem of the Republic] might shake his mane and roar again, instead of
dipping his head to lick the feet of anybody that will mount and ride
him, I'd strike a good blow for it."
"And that reform is not far off, Niccolo," said the sallow, mild-faced
man, seizing his opportunity like a missionary among the too
light-minded heathens; "for a time of tribulation is coming, and the
scourge is at hand.  And when the Church is purged of cardinals and
prelates who traffic in her inheritance that their hands may be full to
pay the price of blood and to satisfy their own lusts, the State will be
purged too--and Florence will be purged of men who love to see avarice
and lechery under the red hat and the mitre because it gives them the
screen of a more hellish vice than their own."
"Ay, as Goro's broad body would be a screen for my narrow person in case
of missiles," said Nello; "but if that excellent screen happened to
fall, I were stifled under it, surely enough.  That is no bad image of
thine, Nanni--or, rather, of the Frate's; for I fancy there is no room
in the small cup of thy understanding for any other liquor than what he
pours into it."
"And it were well for thee, Nello," replied Nanni, "if thou couldst
empty thyself of thy scoffs and thy jests, and take in that liquor too.
The warning is ringing in the ears of all men: and it's no new story;
for the Abbot Joachim prophesied of the coming time three hundred years
ago, and now Fra Girolamo has got the message afresh.  He has seen it in
a vision, even as the prophets of old: he has seen the sword hanging
from the sky."
