"Let us see, let us see," said Nello, perusing the floor, and walking up
and down the length of his shop.  "This is no time to apply to Piero de'
Medici, though he has the will to make such purchases if he could always
spare the money; but I think it is another sort of Cleopatra that he
covets most...  Yes, yes, I have it.  What you want is a man of wealth,
and influence, and scholarly tastes--not one of your learned porcupines,
bristling all over with critical tests, but one whose Greek and Latin
are of a comfortable laxity.  And that man is Bartolommeo Scala, the
secretary of our Republic.  He came to Florence as a poor adventurer
himself--a miller's son--a `branny monster,' as he has been nicknamed by
our honey-lipped Poliziano, who agrees with him as well as my teeth
agree with lemon-juice.  And, by the by, that may be a reason why the
secretary may be the more ready to do a good turn to a strange scholar.
For, between you and me, _bel giovane_--trust a barber who has shaved
the best scholars--friendliness is much such a steed as Ser Benghi's: it
will hardly show much alacrity unless it has got the thistle of hatred
under its tail.  However, the secretary is a man who'll keep his word to
you, even to the halving of a fennel-seed; and he is not unlikely to buy
some of your gems."
"But how am I to get at this great man?" said the Greek, rather
impatiently.
"I was coming to that," said Nello.  "Just now everybody of any public
importance will be full of Lorenzo's death, and a stranger may find it
difficult to get any notice.  But in the meantime, I could take you to a
man who, if he has a mind, can help you to a chance of a favourable
interview with Scala sooner than anybody else in Florence--worth seeing
for his own sake too, to say nothing of his collections, or of his
daughter Romola, who is as fair as the Florentine lily before it got
quarrelsome and turned red."
"But if this father of the beautiful Romola makes collections, why
should he not like to buy some of my gems himself?"
Nello shrugged his shoulders.  "For two good reasons--want of sight to
look at the gems, and want of money to pay for them.  Our old Bardo de'
Bardi is so blind that he can see no more of his daughter than, as he
says, a glimmering of something bright when she comes very near him:
doubtless her golden hair, which, as Messer Luigi Pulci says of his
Meridiana's, `_raggia come stella per sereno_.'  Ah! here come some
clients of mine, and I shouldn't wonder if one of them could serve your
turn about that ring."
CHAPTER FOUR.
FIRST IMPRESSIONS.
"Good-day, Messer Domenico," said Nello to the foremost of the two
visitors who entered the shop, while he nodded silently to the other.
"You come as opportunely as cheese on macaroni.  Ah! you are in haste--
wish to be shaved without delay--ecco!  And this is a morning when every
one has grave matter on his mind.  Florence orphaned--the very pivot of
Italy snatched away--heaven itself at a loss what to do next.  _Oime_!
Well, well; the sun is nevertheless travelling on towards dinner-time
again; and, as I was saying, you come like cheese ready grated.  For
this young stranger was wishing for an honourable trader who would
advance, him a sum on a certain ring of value, and if I had counted
every goldsmith and money-lender in Florence on my fingers, I couldn't
have found a better name than Menico Cennini.  Besides, he hath other
ware in which you deal--Greek learning, and young eyes--a double
implement which you printers are always in need of."
