Mr. Farquhar, though not a parishioner of Mr. Ely's, was one of his
warmest admirers, and thought he would make an unexceptionable
son-in-law, in spite of his being of no particular 'family'. Mr. Farquhar
was susceptible on the point of 'blood'--his own circulating fluid, which
animated a short and somewhat flabby person, being, he considered, of
very superior quality.
'By the by,' he said, with a certain pomposity counteracted by a lisp,
'what an ath Barton makth of himthelf, about that Bridmain and the
Counteth, ath she callth herthelf. After you were gone the other evening,
Mithith Farquhar wath telling him the general opinion about them in the
neighbourhood, and he got quite red and angry. Bleth your thoul, he
believth the whole thtory about her Polish huthband and hith wonderful
ethcapeth; and ath for her--why, he thinkth her perfection, a woman of
motht refined fellingth, and no end of thtuff.'
Mr. Ely smiled. 'Some people would say our friend Barton was not the best
judge of refinement. Perhaps the lady flatters him a little, and we men
are susceptible. She goes to Shepperton Church every Sunday--drawn there,
let us suppose, by Mr. Barton's eloquence.'
'Pshaw,' said Mr. Farquhar: 'Now, to my mind, you have only to look at
that woman to thee what she ith--throwing her eyth about when she comth
into church, and drething in a way to attract attention. I should thay,
she'th tired of her brother Bridmain, and looking out for another brother
with a thtronger family likeneth. Mithith Farquhar ith very fond of
Mithith Barton, and ith quite dithtrethed that she should athothiate with
thuch a woman, tho she attacked him on the thubject purpothly. But I tell
her it'th of no uthe, with a pig-headed fellow like him. Barton'th
well-meaning enough, but _tho_ contheited. I've left off giving him my
advithe.'
Mr. Ely smiled inwardly and said to himself, 'What a punishment!' But to
Mr. Farquhar he said, 'Barton might be more judicious, it must be
confessed.' He was getting tired, and did not want to develop the
subject.
'Why, nobody vithit-th them but the Bartonth,' continued Mr. Farquhar,
'and why should thuch people come here, unleth they had particular
reathonth for preferring a neighbourhood where they are not known? Pooh!
it lookth bad on the very fathe of it. _You_ called on them, now; how did
you find them?'
'O!--Mr. Bridmain strikes me as a common sort of man, who is making an
effort to seem wise and well-bred. He comes down on one tremendously with
political information, and seems knowing about the king of the French.
The Countess is certainly a handsome woman, but she puts on the grand air
a little too powerfully. Woodcock was immensely taken with her, and
insisted on his wife's calling on her and asking her to dinner; but I
think Mrs. Woodcock turned restive after the first visit, and wouldn't
invite her again.'
'Ha, ha! Woodcock hath alwayth a thoft place in hith heart for a pretty
fathe. It'th odd how he came to marry that plain woman, and no fortune
either.'
