Dunstan was moving off, but Godfrey rushed after him and seized him by
the arm, saying, with an oath--
"I tell you, I have no money: I can get no money."
"Borrow of old Kimble."
"I tell you, he won't lend me any more, and I shan't ask him."
"Well, then, sell Wildfire."
"Yes, that's easy talking.  I must have the money directly."
"Well, you've only got to ride him to the hunt to-morrow.  There'll be
Bryce and Keating there, for sure.  You'll get more bids than one."
"I daresay, and get back home at eight o'clock, splashed up to the
chin.  I'm going to Mrs. Osgood's birthday dance."
"Oho!"  said Dunsey, turning his head on one side, and trying to speak
in a small mincing treble.  "And there's sweet Miss Nancy coming; and
we shall dance with her, and promise never to be naughty again, and be
taken into favour, and--"
"Hold your tongue about Miss Nancy, you fool," said Godfrey, turning
red, "else I'll throttle you."
"What for?"  said Dunsey, still in an artificial tone, but taking a
whip from the table and beating the butt-end of it on his palm. "You've
a very good chance.  I'd advise you to creep up her sleeve again: it
'ud be saving time, if Molly should happen to take a drop too much
laudanum some day, and make a widower of you.  Miss Nancy wouldn't mind
being a second, if she didn't know it.  And you've got a good-natured
brother, who'll keep your secret well, because you'll be so very
obliging to him."
"I'll tell you what it is," said Godfrey, quivering, and pale again,
"my patience is pretty near at an end.  If you'd a little more
sharpness in you, you might know that you may urge a man a bit too far,
and make one leap as easy as another.  I don't know but what it is so
now: I may as well tell the Squire everything myself--I should get you
off my back, if I got nothing else.  And, after all, he'll know some
time.  She's been threatening to come herself and tell him.  So, don't
flatter yourself that your secrecy's worth any price you choose to ask.
You drain me of money till I have got nothing to pacify _her_ with, and
she'll do as she threatens some day.  It's all one.  I'll tell my
father everything myself, and you may go to the devil."
Dunsey perceived that he had overshot his mark, and that there was a
point at which even the hesitating Godfrey might be driven into
decision.  But he said, with an air of unconcern--
"As you please; but I'll have a draught of ale first."  And ringing the
bell, he threw himself across two chairs, and began to rap the
window-seat with the handle of his whip.
Godfrey stood, still with his back to the fire, uneasily moving his
fingers among the contents of his side-pockets, and looking at the
floor.  That big muscular frame of his held plenty of animal courage,
but helped him to no decision when the dangers to be braved were such
as could neither be knocked down nor throttled.  His natural
irresolution and moral cowardice were exaggerated by a position in
which dreaded consequences seemed to press equally on all sides, and
his irritation had no sooner provoked him to defy Dunstan and
anticipate all possible betrayals, than the miseries he must bring on
himself by such a step seemed more unendurable to him than the present
evil.  The results of confession were not contingent, they were
certain; whereas betrayal was not certain. From the near vision of that
certainty he fell back on suspense and vacillation with a sense of
repose.  The disinherited son of a small squire, equally disinclined to
dig and to beg, was almost as helpless as an uprooted tree, which, by
the favour of earth and sky, has grown to a handsome bulk on the spot
where it first shot upward. Perhaps it would have been possible to
think of digging with some cheerfulness if Nancy Lammeter were to be
won on those terms; but, since he must irrevocably lose _her_ as well
as the inheritance, and must break every tie but the one that degraded
him and left him without motive for trying to recover his better self,
he could imagine no future for himself on the other side of confession
but that of "'listing for a soldier"--the most desperate step, short of
suicide, in the eyes of respectable families.  No!  he would rather
trust to casualties than to his own resolve--rather go on sitting at
the feast, and sipping the wine he loved, though with the sword hanging
over him and terror in his heart, than rush away into the cold darkness
where there was no pleasure left.  The utmost concession to Dunstan
about the horse began to seem easy, compared with the fulfilment of his
own threat.  But his pride would not let him recommence the
conversation otherwise than by continuing the quarrel.  Dunstan was
waiting for this, and took his ale in shorter draughts than usual.
