Madeline de Souvre, daughter of the Marquis of Courtenvaux, a nobleman
distinguished enough to be chosen as governor of Louis XIII., was born in
1599, on the threshold of that seventeenth century, the brilliant genius
of which is mildly reflected in her mind and history.  Thus, when in 1635
her more celebrated friend, Mademoiselle de Bourbon, afterward the
Duchess de Longueville, made her appearance at the Hotel de Rambouillet,
Madame de Sable had nearly crossed that tableland of maturity which
precedes a woman's descent toward old age.  She had been married in 1614,
to Philippe Emanuel de Laval-Montmorency, Seigneur de Bois-Dauphin, and
Marquis de Sable, of whom nothing further is known than that he died in
1640, leaving her the richer by four children, but with a fortune
considerably embarrassed.  With beauty and high rank added to the mental
attractions of which we have abundant evidence, we may well believe that
Madame de Sable's youth was brilliant.  For her beauty, we have the
testimony of sober Madame de Motteville, who also speaks of her as having
"beaucoup de lumiere et de sincerite;" and in the following passage very
graphically indicates one phase of Madame de Sable's character:
    "The Marquise de Sable was one of those whose beauty made the most
    noise when the Queen came into France.  But if she was amiable, she
    was still more desirous of appearing so; this lady's self-love
    rendered her too sensitive to the regard which men exhibited toward
    her.  There yet existed in France some remains of the politeness
    which Catherine de Medici had introduced from Italy, and the new
    dramas, with all the other works in prose and verse, which came from
    Madrid, were thought to have such great delicacy, that she (Madame de
    Sable) had conceived a high idea of the gallantry which the Spaniards
    had learned from the Moors.
    "She was persuaded that men can, without crime, have tender
    sentiments for women--that the desire of pleasing them led men to the
    greatest and finest actions--roused their intelligence, and inspired
    them with liberality, and all sorts of virtues; but, on the other
    hand, women, who were the ornament of the world, and made to be
    served and adored, ought not to admit anything from them but their
    respectful attentions.  As this lady supported her views with much
    talent and great beauty, she had given them authority in her time,
    and the number and consideration of those who continued to associate
    with her have caused to subsist in our day what the Spaniards call
    _finezas_."
Here is the grand element of the original _femme precieuse_, and it
appears farther, in a detail also reported by Madame de Motteville, that
Madame de Sable had a passionate admirer in the accomplished Duc de
Montmorency, and apparently reciprocated his regard; but discovering (at
what period of their attachment is unknown) that he was raising a lover's
eyes toward the queen, she broke with him at once.  "I have heard her
say," tells Madame de Motteville, "that her pride was such with regard to
the Duc de Montmorency, that at the first demonstrations which he gave of
his change, she refused to see him any more, being unable to receive with
satisfaction attentions which she had to share with the greatest princess
in the world."  There is no evidence except the untrustworthy assertion
of Tallement de Reaux, that Madame de Sable had any other _liaison_ than
this; and the probability of the negative is increased by the ardor of
her friendships.  The strongest of these was formed early in life with
Mademoiselle Dona d'Attichy, afterward Comtesse de Maure; it survived the
effervescence of youth, and the closest intimacy of middle age, and was
only terminated by the death of the latter in 1663.  A little incident in
this friendship is so characteristic in the transcendentalism which was
then carried into all the affections, that it is worth relating at
length.  Mademoiselle d'Attichy, in her grief and indignation at
Richelieu's treatment of her relative, quitted Paris, and was about to
join her friend at Sable, when she suddenly discovered that Madame de
Sable, in a letter to Madame de Rambouillet, had said that her greatest
happiness would be to pass her life with Julie de Rambouillet, afterward
Madame de Montausier.  To Anne d'Attichy this appears nothing less than
the crime of _lese-amitie_.  No explanations will appease her: she
refuses to accept the assurance that the offensive expression was used
simply out of unreflecting conformity to the style of the Hotel de
Rambouillet--that it was mere "_galimatias_."  She gives up her journey,
and writes a letter, which is the only one Madame de Sable chose to
preserve, when, in her period of devotion, she sacrificed the records of
her youth.  Here it is:
