Mr. Riley paused a moment, while Mr. Tulliver, some-what reassured as
to clerical tutorship, was inwardly rehearsing to an imaginary Mr.
Stelling the statement, "I want my son to know 'rethmetic."
"You see, my dear Tulliver," Mr. Riley continued, "when you get a
thoroughly educated man, like Stelling, he's at no loss to take up any
branch of instruction. When a workman knows the use of his tools, he
can make a door as well as a window."
"Ay, that's true," said Mr. Tulliver, almost convinced now that the
clergy must be the best of schoolmasters.
"Well, I'll tell you what I'll do for you," said Mr. Riley, "and I
wouldn't do it for everybody. I'll see Stelling's father-in-law, or
drop him a line when I get back to Mudport, to say that you wish to
place your boy with his son-in-law, and I dare say Stelling will write
to you, and send you his terms."
"But there's no hurry, is there?" said Mrs. Tulliver; "for I hope, Mr.
Tulliver, you won't let Tom begin at his new school before Midsummer.
He began at the 'cademy at the Lady-day quarter, and you see what
good's come of it."
"Ay, ay, Bessy, never brew wi' bad malt upo' Michael-masday, else
you'll have a poor tap," said Mr. Tulliver, winking and smiling at Mr.
Riley, with the natural pride of a man who has a buxom wife
conspicuously his inferior in intellect. "But it's true there's no
hurry; you've hit it there, Bessy."
"It might be as well not to defer the arrangement too long," said Mr.
Riley, quietly, "for Stelling may have propositions from other
parties, and I know he would not take more than two or three boarders,
if so many. If I were you, I think I would enter on the subject with
Stelling at once: there's no necessity for sending the boy before
Midsummer, but I would be on the safe side, and make sure that nobody
forestalls you."
"Ay, there's summat in that," said Mr. Tulliver.
"Father," broke in Maggie, who had stolen unperceived to her father's
elbow again, listening with parted lips, while she held her doll
topsy-turvy, and crushed its nose against the wood of the
chair,--"father, is it a long way off where Tom is to go? Sha'n't we
ever go to see him?"
"I don't know, my wench," said the father, tenderly. "Ask Mr. Riley;
he knows."
Maggie came round promptly in front of Mr. Riley, and said, "How far
is it, please, sir?"
"Oh, a long, long way off," that gentleman answered, being of opinion
that children, when they are not naughty, should always be spoken to
jocosely. "You must borrow the seven-leagued boots to get to him."
"That's nonsense!" said Maggie, tossing her head haughtily, and
turning away, with the tears springing in her eyes. She began to
dislike Mr. Riley; it was evident he thought her silly and of no
consequence.
"Hush, Maggie! for shame of you, asking questions and chattering,"
said her mother. "Come and sit down on your little stool, and hold
your tongue, do. But," added Mrs. Tulliver, who had her own alarm
awakened, "is it so far off as I couldn't wash him and mend him?"
