Mr. Tulliver rubbed his knees, and looked at the carpet in a
meditative manner.
"But belike he's a bachelor," observed Mrs. Tulliver, in the interval;
"an' I've no opinion o' housekeepers. There was my brother, as is dead
an' gone, had a housekeeper once, an' she took half the feathers out
o' the best bed, an' packed 'em up an' sent 'em away. An' it's unknown
the linen she made away with--Stott her name was. It 'ud break my
heart to send Tom where there's a housekeeper, an' I hope you won't
think of it, Mr. Tulliver."
"You may set your mind at rest on that score, Mrs. Tulliver," said Mr.
Riley, "for Stelling is married to as nice a little woman as any man
need wish for a wife. There isn't a kinder little soul in the world; I
know her family well. She has very much your complexion,--light curly
hair. She comes of a good Mudport family, and it's not every offer
that would have been acceptable in that quarter. But Stelling's not an
every-day man; rather a particular fellow as to the people he chooses
to be connected with. But I _think_ he would have no objection to take
your son; I _think_ he would not, on my representation."
"I don't know what he could have _against_ the lad," said Mrs.
Tulliver, with a slight touch of motherly indignation; "a nice
fresh-skinned lad as anybody need wish to see."
"But there's one thing I'm thinking on," said Mr. Tulliver, turning
his head on one side and looking at Mr. Riley, after a long perusal of
the carpet. "Wouldn't a parson be almost too high-learnt to bring up a
lad to be a man o' business? My notion o' the parsons was as they'd
got a sort o' learning as lay mostly out o' sight. And that isn't what
I want for Tom. I want him to know figures, and write like print, and
see into things quick, and know what folks mean, and how to wrap
things up in words as aren't actionable. It's an uncommon fine thing,
that is," concluded Mr. Tulliver, shaking his head, "when you can let
a man know what you think of him without paying for it."
"Oh, my dear Tulliver," said Mr. Riley, "you're quite under a mistake
about the clergy; all the best schoolmasters are of the clergy. The
schoolmasters who are not clergymen are a very low set of men
generally."
"Ay, that Jacobs is, at the 'cademy," interposed Mr. Tulliver.
"To be sure,--men who have failed in other trades, most likely. Now, a
clergyman is a gentleman by profession and education; and besides
that, he has the knowledge that will ground a boy, and prepare him for
entering on any career with credit. There may be some clergymen who
are mere bookmen; but you may depend upon it, Stelling is not one of
them,--a man that's wide awake, let me tell you. Drop him a hint, and
that's enough. You talk of figures, now; you have only to say to
Stelling, 'I want my son to be a thorough arithmetician,' and you may
leave the rest to him."
