And now Pecuchet would never let M. Jeufroy alone. He would surprise him
in the garden, wait for him in the confessional, and take up the
argument again in the sacristy.
The priest had to invent plans in order to escape from him.
One day, after he had started for Sassetot on a sick call, Pecuchet
proceeded along the road in front of him in such a way as to render
conversation inevitable.
It was an evening about the end of August. The red sky began to darken,
and a large cloud lowered above them, regular at the base and forming
volutes at the top.
Pecuchet at first talked about indifferent subjects, then, having
slipped out the word "martyr":
"How many do you think there were of them?"
"A score of millions at least."
"Their number is not so great, according to Origen."
"Origen, you know, is open to suspicion."
A big gust of wind swept past, violently shaking the grass beside the
ditches and the two rows of young elm trees that stretched towards the
end of the horizon.
Pecuchet went on:
"Amongst the martyrs we include many Gaulish bishops killed while
resisting the barbarians, which is no longer the question at issue."
"Do you wish to defend the emperors?"
According to Pecuchet, they had been calumniated.
"The history of the Theban legion is a fable. I also question Symphorosa
and her seven sons, Felicitas and her seven daughters, and the seven
virgins of Ancyra condemned to violation, though septuagenarians, and
the eleven thousand virgins of St. Ursula, of whom one companion was
called _Undecemilla_, a name taken for a figure; still more, the ten
martyrs of Alexandria!"
"And yet--and yet they are found in authors worthy of credit."
Raindrops fell, and the cure unrolled his umbrella; and Pecuchet, when
he was under it, went so far as to maintain that the Catholics had made
more martyrs than the Jews, the Mussulmans, the Protestants, and the
Freethinkers--than all those of Rome in former days.
The priest exclaimed:
"But we find ten persecutions from the reign of Nero to that of Caesar
Galba!"
"Well! and the massacres of the Albigenses? and St. Bartholomew? and the
revocation of the Edict of Nantes?"
"Deplorable excesses, no doubt; but you do not mean to compare these
people to St. Etienne, St. Lawrence, Cyprian, Polycarp, a crowd of
missionaries?"
"Excuse me! I will remind you of Hypatia, Jerome of Prague, John Huss,
Bruno, Vanini, Anne Dubourg!"
The rain increased, and its drops dashed down with such force that they
rebounded from the ground like little white rockets.
Pecuchet and M. Jeufroy walked on slowly, pressed close to one another,
and the cure said:
"After abominable tortures they were flung into vessels of boiling
water."
"The Inquisition made use of the same kind of torture, and it burned
very well for you."
"Illustrious ladies were exhibited to the public gaze in the
_lupanars_."
"Do you believe Louis XIV.'s dragoons regarded decency?"
"And mark well that the Christians had done nothing against the State."
