"Again I tell you those miracles were spurious! There are no miracles
outside of the Church."
"Stop!" said Pecuchet, "that is the same argument you used regarding the
martyrs: the doctrine rests on the facts and the facts on the doctrine."
M. Jeufroy, having swallowed a glass of water, replied:
"Even while denying them you believe in them. The world which twelve
fishermen converted--look at that! it seems to me a fine miracle."
"Not at all!"
Pecuchet gave a different account of the matter: "Monotheism comes from
the Hebrews; the Trinity from the Indians; the Logos belongs to Plato,
and the Virgin Mother to Asia."
No matter! M. Jeufroy clung to the supernatural and did not desire that
Christianity should have humanly the least reason for its existence,
though he saw amongst all peoples foreshadowings or deformations of it.
The scoffing impiety of the eighteenth century he would have tolerated,
but modern criticism, with its politeness, exasperated him.
"I prefer the atheist who blasphemes to the sceptic who cavils."
Then he looked at them with an air of bravado, as if to dismiss them.
Pecuchet returned home in a melancholy frame of mind. He had hoped for a
reconciliation between faith and reason.
Bouvard made him read this passage from Louis Hervieu:
"In order to know the abyss which separates them, oppose their axioms.
"Reason says to you: 'The whole comprehends the part,' and faith replies
to you: 'By substantiation, Jesus, while communicating with the
apostles, had His body in His hand and His head in His mouth.'
"Reason says to you: 'No one is responsible for the crime of another,'
and faith replies to you: 'By original sin.'
"Reason says to you: 'Three make three,' and faith declares that 'Three
make one.'"
They no longer associated with the abbe.
It was the period of the war with Italy. The respectable people were
trembling for the Pope. They were thundering against Victor Emmanuel.
Madame de Noares went so far as to wish for his death. Bouvard and
Pecuchet alone protested timidly.
When the door of the drawing-room flew open in front of them and they
looked at themselves in the lofty mirrors, as they passed, whilst
through the windows they caught a glimpse of the walks where glared
above the grass the red waistcoat of a man-servant, they felt a
sensation of delight; and the luxuriousness of their surroundings
rendered them indulgent to the words that were uttered there.
The count lent them all the works of M. de Maistre. He expounded the
principles contained in them before a circle of intimate friends--Hurel,
the cure, the justice of the peace, the notary, and the baron, his
future son-in-law, who used to come from time to time for twenty-four
hours to the chateau.
"What is abominable," said the count, "is the spirit of 'eighty-nine.
First of all they question the existence of God; then they dispute about
government; then comes liberty--liberty for insults, for revolt, for
enjoyments, or rather for plunder, so that religion and authority ought
to proscribe the independents, the heretics. No doubt they will protest
against what they call persecution, as if the executioners persecuted
the criminals. Let me resume: No State without God! the law being unable
to command respect unless it comes from on high, and, in fact, it is not
a question of the Italians, but of determining which shall have the best
of it, the Revolution or the Pope, Satan or Jesus Christ."
