"Oh! upon my word!"
"Yes, certainly! and it is not a sacrament. A sign is necessary for a
sacrament. Show me the sign in marriage."
In vain did the cure reply that it represented the union of God with the
Church.
"You do not understand Christianity either! And the law----"
"The law preserves the stamp of Christianity," said M. de Faverges.
"Without that, it would permit polygamy."
A voice rejoined: "Where would be the harm?"
It was Bouvard, half hidden by a curtain.
"You might have many wives, like the Patriarchs, the Mormons, the
Mussulmans, and nevertheless be an honest man."
"Never!" exclaimed the priest; "honesty consists in rendering what is
due. We owe homage to God. So he who is not a Christian is not honest."
"Just as much as others," said Bouvard.
The count, believing that he saw in this rejoinder an attack on
religion, extolled it. It had set free the slaves.
Bouvard referred to authorities to prove the contrary:
"St. Paul recommends them to obey their masters as they would obey
Jesus. St. Ambrose calls servitude a gift of God. Leviticus, Exodus, and
the Councils have sanctioned it. Bossuet treats it as a part of the law
of nations. And Monseigneur Bouvier approves of it."
The count objected that, none the less, Christianity had developed
civilisation.
"Ay, and idleness, by making a virtue of poverty."
"However, sir, the morality of the Gospel?"
"Ha! ha! not so moral! Those who labour only during the last hour are
paid as much as those who labour from the first hour. To him who hath is
given, and from him who hath not is taken away. As for the precept of
receiving blows without returning them and of letting yourself be
robbed, it encourages the audacious, the cowardly, and the dissolute."
They were doubly scandalised when Pecuchet declared that he liked
Buddhism as well.
The priest burst out laughing.
"Ha! ha! ha! Buddhism!"
Madame de Noares lifted up her hands: "Buddhism!"
"What! Buddhism!" repeated the count.
"Do you understand it?" said Pecuchet to M. Jeufroy, who had become
confused. "Well, then, learn something about it. Better than
Christianity, and before it, it has recognised the nothingness of
earthly things. Its practices are austere, its faithful more numerous
than the entire body of Christians; and, as for incarnation, Vishnu had
not merely one, but nine of them. So judge."
"Travellers' lies!" said Madame de Noares.
"Backed up by the Freemasons!" added the cure.
And all talking at the same time:
"Come, then, go on!"
"Very pretty!"
"For my part, I think it funny!"
"Not possible!"
Finally, Pecuchet, exasperated, declared that he would become a
Buddhist!
"You are insulting Christian ladies," said the baron.
Madame de Noares sank into an armchair. The countess and Yolande
remained silent. The count kept rolling his eyes; Hurel was waiting for
his orders. The abbe, to contain himself, read his breviary.
This sight calmed M. de Faverges; and, looking at the two worthies:
"Before you find fault with the Gospel, and that when there may be
stains on your own lives, there is some reparation----"
