Flaubert's method of production was slow and laborious. Sometimes weeks
were required to write a few pages, for he accumulated masses of notes
and, it must be said, so much erudition as at times to impede action. He
thought no toil too great, did it but aid him in his pursuit of literary
perfection, and when the work that called for such expenditure of
strength and thought was finished, he looked for no reward save that of
a satisfied soul. Alien to business wisdom, he believed that to set a
price upon his work disparaged it.
In Flaubert, a Romanticist and a Naturalist at first were blended. But
the latter tendency was fostered and acknowledged, while the former was
repressed. He was an ardent advocate of the impersonal in art, declaring
that an author should not in a page, a line, or a word, express the
smallest part of an opinion. To him a writer was a mirror, but a mirror
that reflected life while adding that divine effulgence which is Art. Of
him a French Romanticist still living says:
     "Imagination was espoused by Unremitting-Toil-in-Faith and bore
     Flaubert. France fed the child, but Art stepped in and gave him to
     the Nations as a Beacon for the worshippers of
     Truth-in-Letters-and-in-Life."
The city of Rouen reared a monument to Flaubert's memory, but on the
spot where he breathed his last are reared the chimneys and the
buildings of a factory, a tribute--possibly unconscious--to reality in
life.
Before writing _Madame Bovary_ Flaubert had tested himself, and an idea
of the scope and variety of his ideas may be gained from the following
list of inedited and unfinished fragments:
HISTORICAL
    The Death of the Due de Guise, 1835
    Norman Chronicle of the Tenth Century, 1836
    Two Hands on a Crown, or, During the Fifteenth Century, 1836.
    Essay on the Struggle between Priesthood and Empire, 1838.
    Rome and the Caesars, 1839.
TRAVELS
    Various notes on Travels to the Pyrenean Mountains, Corsica,
    Spain and the Orient, from 1840 to 1850.
TALES AND NOVELS
    The Plague in Florence, 1836
    Rage and Impotence, 1836
    The Society Woman, fantastic verses, 1836
    Bibliomania, 1836
    An Exquisite Perfume, or, The Buffoons, 1836.
    Dreams of the Infernal Regions, 1837
    Passion and Chastity, 1837
    The Funeral of Dr. Mathurin, or, During the XVth Century, 1839.
    Frenzy and Death, 1843
    Sentimental Education (not the novel published under same title).
    1843.
PLAYS
    Louis XI, Drama, 1838
    Discovery of Vaccination, a parody of tragic style; one act only
    was written.
CRITICISMS
    On Romantic Literature in France
MISCELLANY
    Quidquid volueris? A psychological study, 1837.
    Agony (Sceptical Thoughts), 1838
    Art and Commerce, 1839.
    Several nameless sketches.
Unfortunately, nearly all the works of Flaubert's youth were mere
sketches, laid aside by him. Their publication would have added nothing
to his fame. Still, the loss of some would have been deplorable, to wit,
such gems as _Novembre_, _The Dance of Death_, _Rabelais_, and the
travels, _Over Strand and Field_. These sketches will be found in this
edition.
ROBERT ARNOT
