F. BRUNETIERE
BIOGRAPHICAL PREFACE
Gustave Flaubert was born at Rouen, December 12, 1821. His father was a
physician, who later became chief surgeon in the Hotel Dieu of that
city, and his mother, Anne-Justine-Carline Fleuriot, was of Norman
extraction.
Fourth of a family of six children, as a child Flaubert exhibited marked
fondness for stories, and, with his favourite sister, Caroline, would
invent them for pastime. As a youth, he was exceedingly handsome, tall,
broad-shouldered and athletic, of independent turn of mind, fond of
study, and caring little for the luxuries of life. He attended the
college of Rouen, but showed no marked characteristic save a pronounced
taste for history. After graduating, he went to Paris to read law, at
the Ecole de Droit. At this time disease, the nature of which he always
endeavored to conceal from the world, attacked him and compelled a
return to Rouen. The complaint, as revealed after his death by Maxime
Ducamp, was epilepsy, and the constant fear of suffering an attack in
public led Flaubert to live the life of a recluse.
The death of his father occurring at this critical period, Flaubert
abandoned the study of law, which he had begun only in obedience to the
formally expressed wish of his family. Having a comfortable income, he
turned his thoughts to literature, and from that time all other work was
distasteful. He read and wrote incessantly, although at this period he
never completed anything. Among his papers were found several fragments
written between his eighteenth and twentieth years. Some bear the stamp
of his individuality, if not in the substance, which is romantic,--at
least in the form, which is peculiarly lucid and concise,--for instance,
the slight, romantic, autobiographic sketch entitled _Novembre_.
Flaubert wrote neither for money nor for fame. To him, art was religion,
and to it he sacrificed his life. Perfection of style was his goal; and
unremitting devotion to his ideal slew him. That he was never satisfied
with what he wrote, his letters show; and all who knew him marvelled at
his laborious and pathetic application to his work. He settled first in
Croisset, near Rouen, with his family, but shortly afterwards went to
Brittany with Maxime Ducamp. On his return he planned _La Tentation de
Saint Antoine_, which grew out of a fragmentary sketch entitled _Smarh_
(a mediaeval Mystery, the manuscript tells us), written in early youth.
_La Tentation_ proved a source of labor, for he never ceased revising it
until it appeared in book form in 1874. In 1847, he wrote a modern play,
entitled _Le Candidat_, produced in 1874 at the Vaudeville. It was not
his first dramatic effort, as he had already written a sort of lyric
fairy-play, _Le Chateau des Coeurs_, which was published in his
_Oeuvres Posthumes_.
In 1849 Flaubert visited Greece, Egypt, and Syria, again accompanied by
his friend Maxime Ducamp. After his return he planned a book of
impressions similar to _Par les Champs et par les Greves_, which was the
result of the trip to Brittany; but the beginning only was achieved.
Still he gathered many data for his future great novel, _Salammbo_. The
year 1851 found him back in Croisset, working at _La Tentation de Saint
Antoine_, which he dropped suddenly, when half finished, for an entirely
different subject--_Madame Bovary_, a novel of provincial life,
published first in 1857 in the _Revue de Paris_. For this Flaubert was
prosecuted, on the charge of offending against public morals, but was
acquitted after the remarkable defense offered by Maitre Senard.
