Madame Moreau, indeed, was not on visiting terms with him. Pere Roque
lived in peculiar relations with his servant-girl, and was held in very
slight esteem, although he was the vice-president at elections, and M.
Dambreuse's manager.
"The banker who resides in the Rue d'Anjou," observed Deslauriers. "Do
you know what you ought to do, my fine fellow?"
Isidore once more interrupted. His orders were positive not to go back
without Frederick. Madame would be getting uneasy at his absence.
"Well, well, he will go back," said Deslauriers. "He's not going to stay
out all night."
And, as soon as the man-servant had disappeared:
"You ought to ask that old chap to introduce you to the Dambreuses.
There's nothing so useful as to be a visitor at a rich man's house.
Since you have a black coat and white gloves, make use of them. You must
mix in that set. You can introduce me into it later. Just think!--a man
worth millions! Do all you can to make him like you, and his wife, too.
Become her lover!"
Frederick uttered an exclamation by way of protest.
"Why, I can quote classical examples for you on that point, I rather
think! Remember Rastignac in the _Comedie Humaine_. You will succeed, I
have no doubt."
Frederick had so much confidence in Deslauriers that he felt his
firmness giving way, and forgetting Madame Arnoux, or including her in
the prediction made with regard to the other, he could not keep from
smiling.
The clerk added:
"A last piece of advice: pass your examinations. It is always a good
thing to have a handle to your name: and, without more ado, give up your
Catholic and Satanic poets, whose philosophy is as old as the twelfth
century! Your despair is silly. The very greatest men have had more
difficult beginnings, as in the case of Mirabeau. Besides, our
separation will not be so long. I will make that pickpocket of a father
of mine disgorge. It is time for me to be going back. Farewell! Have you
got a hundred sous to pay for my dinner?"
Frederick gave him ten francs, what was left of those he had got that
morning from Isidore.
Meanwhile, some forty yards away from the bridges, a light shone from
the garret-window of a low-built house.
Deslauriers noticed it. Then he said emphatically, as he took off his
hat:
"Your pardon, Venus, Queen of Heaven, but Penury is the mother of
wisdom. We have been slandered enough for that--so have mercy."
This allusion to an adventure in which they had both taken part, put
them into a jovial mood. They laughed loudly as they passed through the
streets.
Then, having settled his bill at the inn, Deslauriers walked back with
Frederick as far as the crossway near the Hotel-Dieu, and after a long
embrace, the two friends parted.
CHAPTER III.
Sentiment and Passion.
Two months later, Frederick, having debarked one morning in the Rue
Coq-Heron, immediately thought of paying his great visit.
