_Antony_--"It would take a good deal of time to answer you."
_Hilarion_--"Why did He receive the Holy Ghost, although He was the Son?
What need had He of baptism, if He were the Word? How could the Devil
tempt Him--God?
"Have these thoughts never occurred to you?"
_Antony_--"Yes! often! Torpid or frantic, they dwell in my conscience. I
crush them out; they spring up again, they stifle me; and sometimes I
believe that I am accursed."
_Hilarion_--"Then you have nothing to do but to serve God?"
_Antony_--"I have always need to adore Him."
After a prolonged silence, Hilarion resumes:
"But apart from dogma, entire liberty of research is permitted us. Do
you wish to become acquainted with the hierarchy of Angels, the virtue
of Numbers, the explanation of germs and metamorphoses?"
_Antony_--"Yes! yes! My mind is struggling to escape from its prison. It
seems to me that, by gathering my forces, I shall be able to effect
this. Sometimes--even for an interval brief as a lightning-flash--I feel
myself, as it were, suspended in mid-air; then I fall back again!"
_Hilarion_--"The secret which you are anxious to possess is guarded by
sages. They live in a distant country, sitting under gigantic trees,
robed in white, and calm as gods. A warm atmosphere nourishes them. All
around leopards stride through the plains. The murmuring of fountains
mingles with the neighing of unicorns. You shall hear them; and the face
of the Unknown shall be unveiled!"
_Antony_, sighing--"The road is long and I am old!"
_Hilarion_--"Oh! oh! men of learning are not rare! There are some of
them even very close to you here! Let us enter!"
CHAPTER IV.
THE FIERY TRIAL.
And Antony sees in front of him an immense basilica. The light projects
itself from the lower end with the magical effect of a many-coloured
sun. It lights up the innumerable heads of the multitude which fills the
nave and surges between the columns towards the side-aisles, where one
can distinguish in the wooden compartments altars, beds, chainlets of
little blue stones, and constellations painted on the walls.
In the midst of the crowd groups are stationed here and there; men
standing on stools are discoursing with lifted fingers; others are
praying with arms crossed, or lying down on the ground, or singing
hymns, or drinking wine. Around a table the faithful are carrying on the
love-feasts; martyrs are unswathing their limbs to show their wounds;
old men, leaning on their staffs, are relating their travels.
Amongst them are people from the country of the Germans, from Thrace,
Gaul, Scythia and the Indies--with snow on their beards, feathers in
their hair, thorns in the fringes of their garments, sandals covered
with dust, and skins burnt by the sun. All costumes are mingled--mantles
of purple and robes of linen, embroidered dalmatics, woollen jackets,
sailors' caps and bishops' mitres. Their eyes gleam strangely. They have
the appearance of executioners or of eunuchs.
Hilarion advances among them. Antony, pressing against his shoulder,
observes them. He notices a great many women. Several of them are
dressed like men, with their hair cut short. He is afraid of them.
