Monuments in various styles of architecture are piled close to one
another. Egyptian pylons rise above Greek temples. Obelisks exhibit
themselves like spears between battlements of red brick. In the centres
of squares there are statues of Hermes with pointed ears, and of Anubis
with dogs' heads. Antony notices the mosaics in the court-yards, and the
tapestries hung from the cross-beams of the ceiling.
With a single glance he takes in the two ports (the Grand Port and the
Eunostus), both round like two circles, and separated by a mole joining
Alexandria to the rocky island, on which stands the tower of the
Pharos, quadrangular, five hundred cubits high and in nine storys, with
a heap of black charcoal flaming on its summit.
Small ports nearer to the shore intersect the principal ports. The mole
is terminated at each end by a bridge built on marble columns fixed in
the sea. Vessels pass beneath, and pleasure-boats inlaid with ivory,
gondolas covered with awnings, triremes and biremes, all kinds of
shipping, move up and down or remain at anchor along the quays.
Around the Grand Port there is an uninterrupted succession of Royal
structures: the palace of the Ptolemies, the Museum, the Posideion, the
Caesarium, the Timonium where Mark Antony took refuge, and the Soma which
contains the tomb of Alexander; while at the other extremity of the
city, close to the Eunostus, might be seen glass, perfume, and paper
factories.
Itinerant vendors, porters, and ass-drivers rush to and fro, jostling
against one another. Here and there a priest of Osiris with a panther's
skin on his shoulders, a Roman soldier, or a group of negroes, may be
observed. Women stop in front of stalls where artisans are at work, and
the grinding of chariot-wheels frightens away some birds who are picking
up from the ground the sweepings of the shambles and the remnants of
fish. Over the uniformity of white houses the plan of the streets casts,
as it were, a black network. The markets, filled with herbage, exhibit
green bouquets, the drying-sheds of the dyers, plates of colours, and
the gold ornaments on the pediments of temples, luminous points--all
this contained within the oval enclosure of the greyish walls, under the
vault of the blue heavens, hard by the motionless sea. But the crowd
stops and looks towards the eastern side, from which enormous whirlwinds
of dust are advancing.
It is the monks of the Thebaid who are coming, clad in goats' skins,
armed with clubs, and howling forth a canticle of war and of religion
with this refrain:
"Where are they? Where are they?"
Antony comprehends that they have come to kill the Arians.
All at once, the streets are deserted, and one sees no longer anything
but running feet.
And now the Solitaries are in the city. Their formidable cudgels,
studded with nails, whirl around like monstrances of steel. One can hear
the crash of things being broken in the houses. Intervals of silence
follow, and then the loud cries burst forth again. From one end of the
streets to the other there is a continuous eddying of people in a state
of terror. Several are armed with pikes. Sometimes two groups meet and
form into one; and this multitude, after rushing along the pavements,
separates, and those composing it proceed to knock one another down. But
the men with long hair always reappear.
