Antony is deafened by the murmuring of voices. Above and below he
perceives nothing but painted faces, motley garments, and plates of
worked gold; and the sand of the arena, perfectly white, shines like a
mirror.
The Emperor converses with him, confides to him some important secrets,
informs him of the assassination of his own son Crispus, and goes so far
as to consult Antony about his health.
Meanwhile, Antony perceives slaves at the end of the stalls. They are
the fathers of the Council of Nicaea, in rags, abject. The martyr
Paphnutius is brushing a horse's mane; Theophilus is scrubbing the legs
of another; John is painting the hoofs of a third; while Alexander is
picking up their droppings in a basket.
Antony passes among them. They salaam to him, beg of him to intercede
for them, and kiss his hands. The entire crowd hoots at them; and he
rejoices in their degradation immeasurably. And now he has become one
of the great ones of the Court, the Emperor's confidant, first minister!
Constantine places the diadem on his forehead, and Antony keeps it, as
if this honour were quite natural to him.
And presently is disclosed, beneath the darkness, an immense hall,
lighted up by candelabra of gold.
Columns, half lost in shadow so tall are they, run in a row behind the
tables, which stretch to the horizon, where appear, in a luminous haze,
staircases placed one above another, successions of archways, colossi,
towers; and, in the background, an unoccupied wing of the palace, which
cedars overtop, making blacker masses above the darkness.
The guests, crowned with violets, lean upon their elbows on low-lying
couches. Beside each one are placed amphorae, from which they pour out
wine; and, at the very end, by himself, adorned with the tiara and
covered with carbuncles, King Nebuchadnezzar is eating and drinking. To
right and left of him, two theories of priests, with peaked caps, are
swinging censers. Upon the ground are crawling captive kings, without
feet or hands, to whom he flings bones to pick. Further down stand his
brothers, with shades over their eyes, for they are perfectly blind.
A constant lamentation ascends from the depths of the ergastula. The
soft and monotonous sounds of a hydraulic organ alternate with the
chorus of voices; and one feels as if all around the hall there was an
immense city, an ocean of humanity, whose waves were beating against the
walls.
The slaves rush forward carrying plates. Women run about offering drink
to the guests. The baskets groan under the load of bread, and a
dromedary, laden with leathern bottles, passes to and fro, letting
vervain trickle over the floor in order to cool it.
Belluarii lead forth lions; dancing-girls, with their hair in ringlets,
turn somersaults, while squirting fire through their nostrils;
negro-jugglers perform tricks; naked children fling snowballs, which, in
falling, crash against the shining silver plate. The clamour is so
dreadful that it might be described as a tempest, and the steam of the
viands, as well as the respirations of the guests, spreads, as it were,
a cloud over the feast. Now and then, flakes from the huge torches,
snatched away by the wind, traverse the night like flying stars.
