One pauses, horrified to find oneself ticking off these masterpieces on
one's fingers, as though they were so many books by Mrs Humphry Ward or
buns by Lyons. And yet what can one do? Criticism must break down when
it comes to masterpieces. For if one is creative one wants to go away
and spend oneself utterly on this sacred business of creation, wring out
of oneself every drop of this inestimable thing art; and if one is not
creative one can only put out a tremulous finger to touch the marvellous
shining crystal, and be silent with wonder. Deep wonder, since these are
not, as fools have pretended, merely rich treatments of the trivial. For
although he could not grasp a complicated abstraction, was teased by the
implications of a great cause, and angered by an idea that could be
understood only by the synthesis of many references, he could dive down
serenely, like a practised diver going under the sea for pearls, into
the twilit depths of the heart to seize his secrets. There is in
humanity an instinct for ritual, there lies in all of us a desire to
commemorate our deep emotions, that would otherwise glow in our bosoms
and die down for ever, by some form that adds to the beauty of the
world; but there is only one expression of it in literature that is not
poisonously silly. Newman and the Tractarians and Monsignor Benson make
the ritualist seem as big a fool as the old woman who carries a potato
in her pocket to ward off rheumatism. Sabatier makes him seem the kind
of person who takes sugar in his tea, paints in water-colour and likes
_The Roadmender_. But there is a story by Henry James called _The Altar
of the Dead_, rejected again and again by the caste of cretins who edit
the magazines and reviews of this unhappy country, although of so
perfect a beauty that one can read every separate paragraph every day of
one's life for the music of the sentences and the loveliness of the
presented images, which takes ritual from the trembling hands of the
coped old men and exhibits it as something that those who love the
natural frame of things and hate superstition need not fear to accept.
It tells how an ageing man acquires an altar in a Roman Catholic church
and burns at it candles to his many dead, and by worshipping there keeps
so close company with their charity and sweetness that, at his end, the
blaze of white lights inspires him to a last supreme act of forgiveness
to an enemy; and the beautiful recital makes one's mind no longer fear
to admit that the splendour of a Cathedral Mass may, although one's
unbelief fly like an arrow through the show and transfix even the Cross
itself, fulfil a noble need. Once at least Henry James poured into his
crystal goblet the red wine that nourishes the soul.
And it held, too, a liberal draught of the least trivial distillation of
man's mind, which is tragedy, in _The Wings of the Dove_ (1902). That
story is the perfect example of what he had declared in _The Tragic
Muse_ the artistic performance should always be: "the application, clear
and calculated, crystal-firm, as it were, of the idea conceived in the
glow of experience, of suffering, of joy." For Milly Theale, the
American heiress, "who had arts and idiosyncrasies of which no great
account could have been given, but which were a daily grace if you lived
with them; such as the art of being almost tragically impatient and yet
making it light as air; of being inexplicably sad and yet making it
clear as noon; of being unmistakably sad and yet making it soft as
dusk," whose hopeful progress through Europe stops suddenly at the dark
portal in Harley Street, is but the ghost of Mary Temple, whose death
thirty years before had been felt by Henry and William James as the end
of their youth. All those years he had held in his heart the memory of
that poor girl, "conscious of a great capacity for life, but early
stricken and doomed, condemned to die under short respite while also
enamoured of the world; aware, moreover, of the condemnation and
passionately desiring to 'put in' before extinction as many of the finer
vibrations as possible and so achieve, however briefly and brokenly, the
sense of having lived"; but with the prescience of the artist he had
delayed until he had perfected his art to undertake the heavy task of
presenting her tragedy without mitigation and yet making it bearable and
beautiful. Then he lavished his technical resources on her history as he
might have laid flowers on her grave. There is nothing more miraculous
in all his works than the way he contrives that, when her agony becomes
too great to be directly represented and has to be suggested by its
effect upon others, he yet breaks no link of the intimacy between the
reader and his heroine, but provides that her increasing physical
absence shall be so compensated for by her spiritual presence that her
rare appearances are like long-expected visits from a distant friend.
One's knowledge of her glows into love when one sees her holding a
reception in the faded golden splendours of the Venetian palace to which
she has dragged herself to die, smiling bravely at her guests, bidding
musicians strike up to keep them gay, playing, to preserve her hands
from any gesture of anguish or appearance of lassitude, with the rope of
pearls that seems to weigh down her wasted body. Yet one gets one's
vision through the hard, envious eyes of Kate Croy, who is the hawk
circling over the poor dying dove, and the appalled gaze of Merton
Densher, Kate's secret lover, whom she has trapped into a profession of
love for Milly so that the deluded girl will leave him her fortune. And
one sees her most radiantly of all in the interview which she grants to
Densher when she has discovered the cruel fraud practised on her and is
dying of the knowledge, although one is told no more than that "she
received me just as usual, in that glorious great _salone_, in the dress
she always wears, from her inveterate corner of her sofa." From the love
it lit in his heart, a love so great that for very shame Kate cannot
marry him even when her machinations have achieved complete success at
Milly's death, one perceives that this was the dying girl's assumption,
that her sweetness and strength must at that hour have flowered so
divinely that the skies opened and they were no longer matter for a
human history. But about this masterpiece, too, there can be nothing
said. One just sits and looks up, while the Master lifts his old grief,
changed by his craftsmanship into eternal beauty as the wafer is changed
to the Host by the priest's liturgy, enclosed from decay, prisoned in
perfection, in the great shining crystal bowl of his art.
