_The Europeans_ (1878) marks the first time when Mr James took the
international situation as a joke, and he could joke very happily in
those days when his sentence was a straight young thing that could run
where it liked, instead of a delicate creature swathed in relative
clauses as an invalid in shawls. There is no other book by Mr James
which has quite the clear, sunlit charm of this description of the visit
of Eugenia, the morganatically married Baroness, and her brother Felix,
the Bohemian painter, to their cousins' New England farm. There is
nothing at all to their discredit in the past of these two graceful
young people, but they resemble Harlequin and Columbine in the
instability of their existence and the sharp line they draw between
their privacy and their publicity. It appears to them natural that the
private life should be spent largely in wondering how the last public
appearance went off and planning effects for the next, a point of view
which arouses the worst suspicions in their cousins, who are accustomed
to live as though the sky were indeed a broad open eye. So Felix has the
greatest difficulty in persuading his uncle, who takes thirty-two bites
to a moral decision, just as Mr Gladstone took thirty-two bites to a
mouthful, that he is a suitable husband for his cousin Gertrude; and
poor Eugenia fails altogether in an environment where a lie from her
lips is not treated as _un petit peche d'une petite femme_, but remains
simply a lie. The frame of mind this state of affairs produces in the
poor lady is exquisitely described in a passage which shows her going
wistfully through the house of the man who did not propose to her
because he detected her lie, after a visit to his dying mother.
     "Mrs Acton had told Eugenia that her waiting-woman would be in the
     hall to show her downstairs; but the large landing outside her door
     was empty, and Eugenia stood there looking about.... She passed
     slowly downstairs, still looking about. The broad staircase made a
     great bend, and in the angle was a high window, looking westward,
     with a deep bench, covered with a row of flowering plants in
     curious old pots of blue China-ware. The yellow afternoon light
     came in through the flowers and flickered a little on the white
     wainscots. Eugenia paused a moment; the house was perfectly still,
     save for the ticking, somewhere, of a great clock. The lower hall
     stretched away at the foot of the stairs, half covered over with a
     large Oriental rug. Eugenia lingered a little, noticing a great
     many things. '_Comme c'est bien!_' she said to herself; such a
     large, solid, irreproachable basis of existence the place seemed to
     her to indicate. And then she reflected that Mrs Acton was soon to
     withdraw from it. The reflection accompanied her the rest of the
     way downstairs, where she paused again, making more observations.
     The hall was extremely broad, and on either side of the front door
     was a wide, deeply-set window, which threw the shadows of
     everything back into the house. There were high-backed chairs along
     the wall and big Eastern vases upon tables, and, on either side, a
     large cabinet with a glass front and little curiosities within,
     dimly gleaming. The doors were open--into the darkened parlour, the
     library, the dining-room. All these rooms seemed empty. Eugenia
     passed along and stopped a moment on the threshold of each. '_Comme
     c'est bien!_' she murmured again; she had thought of just such a
     house as this when she decided to come to America. She opened the
     front door for herself--her light tread had summoned none of the
     servants--and on the threshold she gave a last look...."
