V
THE GOLDEN BOWL
The signs of age appeared in Mr James' work like white streaks in a
black beard; between two vital and vigorous books there would appear one
that in its garrulity and complacent surrender to mannerism predicted
decay. It became clear, first of all, that he was no longer able to bear
up with serenity under his deep sense that life was a vale of tears. How
much he wished it would all stop is manifest in that strangest of all
visions of Paradise, _The Great Good Place_ (1900). We all have our
hopes of what gifts the hereafter may bring us, and in most cases we
desire some compensation for the limitations of our human knowledge; we
promise ourselves that when we lean over the gold bar of heaven a
competent angel will bustle up, clasping innumerable divinely clear
text-books under its wings, to tell us absolutely everything about
physics, with special reference to the movements of the heavenly bodies
spinning below. But it is the essence of Mr James' Paradise that there
is nothing there at all but a climate, a sweet soft climate in which the
most that happens is one of those summer sprinkles that brings out
smells. This fatigue of life, this hunger for the peace of nothingness,
showed itself in his increasing preference for laying the scene of his
novels in the great good places of this earth, where there is nothing
more dangerous in the parks and on the terraces than deer and peacocks,
and nothing more disturbing to the soul in the high rooms and
interminable galleries than well-bred women. It was not a gain to his
art; under its influence he committed the twittering over teacups which
compose the collection of short stories called _The Better Sort_ (1903),
and the incidentally beautiful but devastatingly artificial _The Awkward
Age_ (1899), in which the reader is perpetually confused because Nanda
Brookenham, one of the most charming of Mr James' "pure in heart," is
wept over as though she had been violated body and soul, when all that
has happened is that she has been brought up in a faster set than the
world thinks desirable for a young unmarried girl. And it was peculiarly
unfortunate that, while his subjects grew flimsier and his settings more
impressive, his style became more and more elaborate. With sentences
vast as the granite blocks of the Pyramids and a scene that would have
made a site for a capital he set about constructing a story the size of
a hen-house. The type of these unhappier efforts of Mr James' genius is
_The Sacred Fount_ (1901), where, with a respect for the mere gross
largeness and expensiveness of the country house which almost makes one
write the author Mr Jeames, he records how a week-end visitor spends
more intellectual force than Kant can have used on _The Critique of Pure
Reason_ in an unsuccessful attempt to discover whether there exists
between certain of his fellow-guests a relationship not more
interesting among these vacuous people than it is among sparrows. The
finely wrought descriptions of the leisured life make one feel as though
one sat in a beautiful old castle, granting its beauty but not pleased,
because one is a prisoner, while the small, mean story worries one like
a rat nibbling at the wainscot. One takes it as significant that the
unnamed host and hostess of the party never appear save to "give
signals." The tiny, desperate figures this phrase shows to the mind's
eye, semaphoring to each other across incredibly extended polished
vistas to keep up their courage under these looming, soaring vaults, may
be taken as symbols of the heart and intellect which Mr James had now
forgotten in his elaboration of their social envelope.
