III
TRANSITION
_Washington Square_ (1881), Mr James' first important work that does not
deal with the international situation, is a work of great genius. Into
the small mould of the story of how a plain and stupid girl was jilted
by a fortune-hunter when he discovered that she would be disinherited by
her contemptuous father on her marriage, Mr James concentrated all the
sense which he had absorbed throughout his childhood of the simple,
provincial life which went on behind the brown stone of old New York. It
has in it a wealth of feeling that does not seem to have originated with
Mr James, just as an old wives' tale told over and over again by the
fireside becomes charged with a synthetic emotion derived from the
comments and expressions of innumerable auditors; and one may surmise
that Catherine's tragedy was first presented to him as an item of local
gossip, sympathetically discussed by his charming New York cousins and
friends. Certainly the tale of this dull girl, who was "twenty years old
before she treated herself, for evening wear, to a red satin gown
trimmed with gold fringe," and progressed by such clumsinesses through a
career of which the only remarkable facts were that "Morris Townsend had
trifled with her affection, and that her father had broken its spring,"
is consecrated by an element of pity which was afterwards signally to
disappear from Mr James' work.
The book so beautifully expresses the woe of all those people to whom
nothing ever happens, who are aware of the gay challenge of life but are
prevented by something leaden in their substance from responding, that
one is not surprised to find that like most good stories about
inarticulate people--like _Une Vie_ and _Un Coeur Simple_--it is
written with the most deliberate cunning. The story is evoked according
to Turgeniev's method of calling his novels out of the inchoate real
world; and what that is had better, since Mr James had been using it
with increasing power since _Roderick Hudson_, be stated in his own
words.
     "I have always fondly remembered a remark that I heard fall years
     ago from the lips of Ivan Turgeniev in regard to his own experience
     of the usual origin of the fictive picture. It began for him almost
     always with the vision of some person or persons, who hovered
     before him, soliciting him, as the active or passive figure,
     interesting him and appealing to him just as they were and by what
     they were. He saw them, in that fashion, as _disponibles_, saw them
     subject to the chances, the complications of existence, and saw
     them vividly, but then had to find for them the right relations,
     those that would most bring them out; to imagine, to invent and
     select and piece together the situations most useful and favourable
     to the sense of the creatures themselves, the complications they
     would be most likely to produce and to feel.
     "'To arrive at these things is to arrive at my "story,"' he said,
     'and that's the way I look for it. The result is that I'm often
     accused of not having "story" enough. I seem to myself to have as
     much as I need--to show my people, to exhibit their relations with
     each other; for that is all my measure. If I watch them long enough
     I see them come together, I see them _placed_, I see them engaged
     in this or that act and in this or that difficulty. How they look
     and move and speak and behave, always in the setting I have found
     for them, is my account of them--of which I dare say, alas, _que
     cela manque souvent d'architecture_....'"
