I cried out, because I had seen that his hair was of three colors now,
brown and gold and silver.
With a quick turn of the head, he found me out in the shadows.
"Hullo, Jenny!" he said, and gripped my hands.
"O Chris, I am so glad!" I stuttered, and then could say no more for
shame that I was thirty-five instead of twenty. For his eyes had
hardened in the midst of his welcome, as though he had trusted that I at
least would have been no party to this conspiracy to deny that he was
young, and he said:
"I've dropped Frank in town. My temper's of the convalescent type." He
might as well have said, "I've dropped Frank, who had grown old, like
you."
"Chris," I went on, "it's so wonderful to have you safe."
"Safe," he repeated. He sighed very deeply and continued to hold my
hands. There was a rustle in the shadows, and he dropped my hands.
The face that looked out of the dimness to him was very white, and her
upper lip was lifted over her teeth in a distressed grimace. It was
immediately as plain as though he had shouted it that this sad mask
meant nothing to him. He knew not because memory had given him any
insight into her heart, but because there is an instinctive kindliness
in him which makes him wise about all suffering, that it would hurt her
if he asked if this was his wife; but his body involuntarily began a
gesture of inquiry before he realized that that, too, would hurt her,
and he checked it half-way. So, through a silence, he stood before her
slightly bent, as though he had been maimed.
"I am your wife." There was a weak, wailing anger behind the words.
"Kitty," he said softly and kindly. He looked around for some
graciousness to make the scene less wounding, and stooped to kiss her;
but he could not. The thought of another woman made him unable to
breathe, sent the blood running under his skin.
With a toss, like a child saying, "Well, if you don't want to, I'm sure
I wouldn't for the world!" Kitty withdrew from the suspended caress. He
watched her retreat into the shadows as though she were a symbol of this
new life by which he was baffled and oppressed, until the darkness
outside became filled with the sound like the surf which we always hear
at Harrowweald on angry evenings, and his eyes became distant, and his
lips smiled. "Up here--in this old place--how one hears the pines!"
She cried out from the other end of the room, as though she were
speaking with some one behind a shut door:
"I've ordered dinner at seven. I thought you'd probably have missed a
meal or two, or would want to go to bed early." She said it very
smartly, with her head on one side like a bird, as if she was pleading
that he would find her very clever about ordering dinner and thinking of
his comfort.
