There came suddenly a thud at the door. We heard Chris swear and stumble
to his feet, while one of the servants spoke helpfully. Kitty knitted
her brows, for she hates gracelessness, and a failure of physical
adjustment is the worst indignity she can conceive.
"He's fallen down those three steps from the hall," I whispered.
"They're new." She did not listen, because she was controlling her face
into harmony with the appearance of serene virginity upon which his eyes
would fall when he entered the room.
His fall had ruffled him and made him look very large and red, and he
breathed hard, like an animal pursued into a strange place by night,
and to his hot consciousness of his disorder the sight of Kitty, her
face and hands and bosom shining like the snow, her gown enfolding her,
and her gold hair crowning her with radiance, and the white fire of
jewels giving passion to the spectacle, was a deep refreshment. She sat
still for a time, so that he might feel this well, then raised her
ringed hand to her necklaces.
"It seems so strange that you should not remember me," she said. "You
gave me all these."
He answered kindly:
"I am glad I did that. You look very beautiful in them." But as he spoke
his gaze shifted to the shadows in the corners of the room, and the
blood ran hot under his skin. He was thinking of another woman, of
another beauty.
Kitty put up her hands as if to defend her jewels.
In that silence dinner was announced, and we went into the dining-room.
It is the fashion at Baldry Court to use no electric light save when
there is work to be done or a great company to be entertained, and to
eat and talk by the mild clarity of many candles. That night it was a
kindly fashion, for we sat about the table with our faces veiled in
shadow, and seemed to listen in quiet contentment to the talk of our man
who had come back to us. Yet all through the meal I was near to weeping,
because whenever he thought himself unobserved he looked at the things
that were familiar to him. Dipping his head, he would glance sidewise at
the old oak paneling, and nearer things he fingered as though sight were
not intimate enough a contact. His hand caressed the arm of his chair,
because he remembered the black gleam of it, stole out and touched the
recollected salt-cellar. It was his furtiveness that was heartrending;
it was as though he were an outcast, and we who loved him stout
policemen. Was Baldry Court so sleek a place that the unhappy felt
offenders there? Then we had all been living wickedly, and he, too. As
his fingers glided here and there he talked bravely about non-committal
things: to what ponies we had been strapped when at the age of five we
were introduced to the hunting-field; how we had teased to be allowed to
keep swans in the pond above the wood, and how the yellow bills of our
intended pets had sent us shrieking homeward; and all the dear life that
makes the bland English country-side secretly adventurous. "Funny
thing," he said. "All the time I was at Boulogne I wanted to see a
kingfisher, that blue scudding down a stream, or a heron's flight round
a willow--" He checked himself suddenly; his head fell forward on his
chest. "You have no herons here, of course," he said drearily, and
fingered the arm of his chair again. Then he raised his head again,
brisk with another subject. "Do they still have trouble with foxes at
Steppy End?"
