Cratylus, the Heracleitean philosopher, and Hermogenes, the brother of
Callias, have been arguing about names; the former maintaining that they
are natural, the latter that they are conventional. Cratylus affirms
that his own is a true name, but will not allow that the name of
Hermogenes is equally true. Hermogenes asks Socrates to explain to
him what Cratylus means; or, far rather, he would like to know, What
Socrates himself thinks about the truth or correctness of names?
Socrates replies, that hard is knowledge, and the nature of names is
a considerable part of knowledge: he has never been to hear the
fifty-drachma course of Prodicus; and having only attended the
single-drachma course, he is not competent to give an opinion on
such matters. When Cratylus denies that Hermogenes is a true name, he
supposes him to mean that he is not a true son of Hermes, because he
is never in luck. But he would like to have an open council and to hear
both sides.
Hermogenes is of opinion that there is no principle in names; they may
be changed, as we change the names of slaves, whenever we please, and
the altered name is as good as the original one.
You mean to say, for instance, rejoins Socrates, that if I agree to call
a man a horse, then a man will be rightly called a horse by me, and a
man by the rest of the world? But, surely, there is in words a true
and a false, as there are true and false propositions. If a whole
proposition be true or false, then the parts of a proposition may be
true or false, and the least parts as well as the greatest; and the
least parts are names, and therefore names may be true or false. Would
Hermogenes maintain that anybody may give a name to anything, and as
many names as he pleases; and would all these names be always true at
the time of giving them? Hermogenes replies that this is the only way
in which he can conceive that names are correct; and he appeals to the
practice of different nations, and of the different Hellenic tribes, in
confirmation of his view. Socrates asks, whether the things differ
as the words which represent them differ:--Are we to maintain with
Protagoras, that what appears is? Hermogenes has always been puzzled
about this, but acknowledges, when he is pressed by Socrates, that there
are a few very good men in the world, and a great many very bad; and the
very good are the wise, and the very bad are the foolish; and this
is not mere appearance but reality. Nor is he disposed to say with
Euthydemus, that all things equally and always belong to all men; in
that case, again, there would be no distinction between bad and good
men. But then, the only remaining possibility is, that all things have
their several distinct natures, and are independent of our notions about
them. And not only things, but actions, have distinct natures, and
are done by different processes. There is a natural way of cutting or
burning, and a natural instrument with which men cut or burn, and any
other way will fail;--this is true of all actions. And speaking is
a kind of action, and naming is a kind of speaking, and we must name
according to a natural process, and with a proper instrument. We cut
with a knife, we pierce with an awl, we weave with a shuttle, we name
with a name. And as a shuttle separates the warp from the woof, so
a name distinguishes the natures of things. The weaver will use the
shuttle well,--that is, like a weaver; and the teacher will use the
name well,--that is, like a teacher. The shuttle will be made by the
carpenter; the awl by the smith or skilled person. But who makes a name?
Does not the law give names, and does not the teacher receive them from
the legislator? He is the skilled person who makes them, and of all
skilled workmen he is the rarest. But how does the carpenter make or
repair the shuttle, and to what will he look? Will he not look at the
ideal which he has in his mind? And as the different kinds of work
differ, so ought the instruments which make them to differ. The several
kinds of shuttles ought to answer in material and form to the several
kinds of webs. And the legislator ought to know the different materials
and forms of which names are made in Hellas and other countries. But
who is to be the judge of the proper form? The judge of shuttles is the
weaver who uses them; the judge of lyres is the player of the lyre;
the judge of ships is the pilot. And will not the judge who is able to
direct the legislator in his work of naming, be he who knows how to
use the names--he who can ask and answer questions--in short, the
dialectician? The pilot directs the carpenter how to make the rudder,
and the dialectician directs the legislator how he is to impose names;
for to express the ideal forms of things in syllables and letters is not
the easy task, Hermogenes, which you imagine.
