After psuche follows soma; this, by a slight permutation, may be either
= (1) the 'grave' of the soul, or (2) may mean 'that by which the soul
signifies (semainei) her wishes.' But more probably, the word is Orphic,
and simply denotes that the body is the place of ward in which the soul
suffers the penalty of sin,--en o sozetai. 'I should like to hear some
more explanations of the names of the Gods, like that excellent one
of Zeus.' The truest names of the Gods are those which they give
themselves; but these are unknown to us. Less true are those by which we
propitiate them, as men say in prayers, 'May he graciously receive any
name by which I call him.' And to avoid offence, I should like to let
them know beforehand that we are not presuming to enquire about them,
but only about the names which they usually bear. Let us begin with
Hestia. What did he mean who gave the name Hestia? 'That is a very
difficult question.' O, my dear Hermogenes, I believe that there was a
power of philosophy and talk among the first inventors of names, both in
our own and in other languages; for even in foreign words a principle
is discernible. Hestia is the same with esia, which is an old form of
ousia, and means the first principle of things: this agrees with the
fact that to Hestia the first sacrifices are offered. There is also
another reading--osia, which implies that 'pushing' (othoun) is the
first principle of all things. And here I seem to discover a delicate
allusion to the flux of Heracleitus--that antediluvian philosopher
who cannot walk twice in the same stream; and this flux of his may
accomplish yet greater marvels. For the names Cronos and Rhea cannot
have been accidental; the giver of them must have known something about
the doctrine of Heracleitus. Moreover, there is a remarkable coincidence
in the words of Hesiod, when he speaks of Oceanus, 'the origin of Gods;'
and in the verse of Orpheus, in which he describes Oceanus espousing
his sister Tethys. Tethys is nothing more than the name of a spring--to
diattomenon kai ethoumenon. Poseidon is posidesmos, the chain of the
feet, because you cannot walk on the sea--the epsilon is inserted by
way of ornament; or perhaps the name may have been originally polleidon,
meaning, that the God knew many things (polla eidos): he may also be
the shaker, apo tou seiein,--in this case, pi and delta have been added.
Pluto is connected with ploutos, because wealth comes out of the earth;
or the word may be a euphemism for Hades, which is usually derived apo
tou aeidous, because the God is concerned with the invisible. But the
name Hades was really given him from his knowing (eidenai) all good
things. Men in general are foolishly afraid of him, and talk with horror
of the world below from which no one may return. The reason why his
subjects never wish to come back, even if they could, is that the
God enchains them by the strongest of spells, namely by the desire of
virtue, which they hope to obtain by constant association with him. He
is the perfect and accomplished Sophist and the great benefactor of the
other world; for he has much more than he wants there, and hence he is
called Pluto or the rich. He will have nothing to do with the souls of
men while in the body, because he cannot work his will with them so
long as they are confused and entangled by fleshly lusts. Demeter is the
mother and giver of food--e didousa meter tes edodes. Here is erate tis,
or perhaps the legislator may have been thinking of the weather, and has
merely transposed the letters of the word aer. Pherephatta, that word
of awe, is pheretapha, which is only an euphonious contraction of e tou
pheromenou ephaptomene,--all things are in motion, and she in her wisdom
moves with them, and the wise God Hades consorts with her--there
is nothing very terrible in this, any more than in the her other
appellation Persephone, which is also significant of her wisdom (sophe).
Apollo is another name, which is supposed to have some dreadful meaning,
but is susceptible of at least four perfectly innocent explanations.
First, he is the purifier or purger or absolver (apolouon); secondly,
he is the true diviner, Aplos, as he is called in the Thessalian dialect
(aplos = aplous, sincere); thirdly, he is the archer (aei ballon),
always shooting; or again, supposing alpha to mean ama or omou, Apollo
becomes equivalent to ama polon, which points to both his musical and
his heavenly attributes; for there is a 'moving together' alike in music
and in the harmony of the spheres. The second lambda is inserted in
order to avoid the ill-omened sound of destruction. The Muses are so
called--apo tou mosthai. The gentle Leto or Letho is named from her
willingness (ethelemon), or because she is ready to forgive and forget
(lethe). Artemis is so called from her healthy well-balanced nature,
dia to artemes, or as aretes istor; or as a lover of virginity, aroton
misesasa. One of these explanations is probably true,--perhaps all of
them. Dionysus is o didous ton oinon, and oinos is quasi oionous because
wine makes those think (oiesthai) that they have a mind (nous) who have
none. The established derivation of Aphrodite dia ten tou athrou genesin
may be accepted on the authority of Hesiod. Again, there is the name of
Pallas, or Athene, which we, who are Athenians, must not forget. Pallas
is derived from armed dances--apo tou pallein ta opla. For Athene we
must turn to the allegorical interpreters of Homer, who make the name
equivalent to theonoe, or possibly the word was originally ethonoe and
signified moral intelligence (en ethei noesis). Hephaestus, again, is
the lord of light--o tou phaeos istor. This is a good notion; and, to
prevent any other getting into our heads, let us go on to Ares. He is
the manly one (arren), or the unchangeable one (arratos). Enough of the
Gods; for, by the Gods, I am afraid of them; but if you suggest other
words, you will see how the horses of Euthyphro prance. 'Only one more
God; tell me about my godfather Hermes.' He is ermeneus, the messenger
or cheater or thief or bargainer; or o eirein momenos, that is, eiremes
or ermes--the speaker or contriver of speeches. 'Well said Cratylus,
then, that I am no son of Hermes.' Pan, as the son of Hermes, is speech
or the brother of speech, and is called Pan because speech indicates
everything--o pan menuon. He has two forms, a true and a false; and is
in the upper part smooth, and in the lower part shaggy. He is the goat
of Tragedy, in which there are plenty of falsehoods.
