Who is the true and who the false statesman?--
The true statesman is he who brings order out of disorder; who first
organizes and then administers the government of his own country; and
having made a nation, seeks to reconcile the national interests with
those of Europe and of mankind. He is not a mere theorist, nor yet a
dealer in expedients; the whole and the parts grow together in his mind;
while the head is conceiving, the hand is executing. Although obliged to
descend to the world, he is not of the world. His thoughts are fixed not
on power or riches or extension of territory, but on an ideal state, in
which all the citizens have an equal chance of health and life, and
the highest education is within the reach of all, and the moral and
intellectual qualities of every individual are freely developed, and
'the idea of good' is the animating principle of the whole. Not the
attainment of freedom alone, or of order alone, but how to unite freedom
with order is the problem which he has to solve.
The statesman who places before himself these lofty aims has undertaken
a task which will call forth all his powers. He must control himself
before he can control others; he must know mankind before he can manage
them. He has no private likes or dislikes; he does not conceal personal
enmity under the disguise of moral or political principle: such
meannesses, into which men too often fall unintentionally, are absorbed
in the consciousness of his mission, and in his love for his country and
for mankind. He will sometimes ask himself what the next generation will
say of him; not because he is careful of posthumous fame, but because
he knows that the result of his life as a whole will then be more fairly
judged. He will take time for the execution of his plans; not hurrying
them on when the mind of a nation is unprepared for them; but like the
Ruler of the Universe Himself, working in the appointed time, for
he knows that human life, 'if not long in comparison with eternity'
(Republic), is sufficient for the fulfilment of many great purposes. He
knows, too, that the work will be still going on when he is no longer
here; and he will sometimes, especially when his powers are failing,
think of that other 'city of which the pattern is in heaven' (Republic).
The false politician is the serving-man of the state. In order to govern
men he becomes like them; their 'minds are married in conjunction;' they
'bear themselves' like vulgar and tyrannical masters, and he is their
obedient servant. The true politician, if he would rule men, must make
them like himself; he must 'educate his party' until they cease to be
a party; he must breathe into them the spirit which will hereafter give
form to their institutions. Politics with him are not a mechanism for
seeming what he is not, or for carrying out the will of the majority.
Himself a representative man, he is the representative not of the lower
but of the higher elements of the nation. There is a better (as well as
a worse) public opinion of which he seeks to lay hold; as there is also
a deeper current of human affairs in which he is borne up when the waves
nearer the shore are threatening him. He acknowledges that he cannot
take the world by force--two or three moves on the political chess board
are all that he can fore see--two or three weeks moves on the political
chessboard are all that he can foresee--two or three weeks or months are
granted to him in which he can provide against a coming struggle. But
he knows also that there are permanent principles of politics which
are always tending to the well-being of states--better administration,
better education, the reconciliation of conflicting elements, increased
security against external enemies. These are not 'of to-day or
yesterday,' but are the same in all times, and under all forms of
government. Then when the storm descends and the winds blow, though he
knows not beforehand the hour of danger, the pilot, not like Plato's
captain in the Republic, half-blind and deaf, but with penetrating eye
and quick ear, is ready to take command of the ship and guide her into
port.
