Socrates compliments Callicles on his frankness in saying what other men
only think. According to his view, those who want nothing are not happy.
'Why,' says Callicles, 'if they were, stones and the dead would be
happy.' Socrates in reply is led into a half-serious, half-comic vein
of reflection. 'Who knows,' as Euripides says, 'whether life may not be
death, and death life?' Nay, there are philosophers who maintain that
even in life we are dead, and that the body (soma) is the tomb (sema) of
the soul. And some ingenious Sicilian has made an allegory, in which
he represents fools as the uninitiated, who are supposed to be carrying
water to a vessel, which is full of holes, in a similarly holey sieve,
and this sieve is their own soul. The idea is fanciful, but nevertheless
is a figure of a truth which I want to make you acknowledge, viz. that
the life of contentment is better than the life of indulgence. Are you
disposed to admit that? 'Far otherwise.' Then hear another parable.
The life of self-contentment and self-indulgence may be represented
respectively by two men, who are filling jars with streams of wine,
honey, milk,--the jars of the one are sound, and the jars of the other
leaky; the first fils his jars, and has no more trouble with them; the
second is always filling them, and would suffer extreme misery if he
desisted. Are you of the same opinion still? 'Yes, Socrates, and the
figure expresses what I mean. For true pleasure is a perpetual stream,
flowing in and flowing out. To be hungry and always eating, to be
thirsty and always drinking, and to have all the other desires and to
satisfy them, that, as I admit, is my idea of happiness.' And to
be itching and always scratching? 'I do not deny that there may be
happiness even in that.' And to indulge unnatural desires, if they are
abundantly satisfied? Callicles is indignant at the introduction of such
topics. But he is reminded by Socrates that they are introduced, not by
him, but by the maintainer of the identity of pleasure and good. Will
Callicles still maintain this? 'Yes, for the sake of consistency, he
will.' The answer does not satisfy Socrates, who fears that he is losing
his touchstone. A profession of seriousness on the part of Callicles
reassures him, and they proceed with the argument. Pleasure and good
are the same, but knowledge and courage are not the same either with
pleasure or good, or with one another. Socrates disproves the first of
these statements by showing that two opposites cannot coexist, but must
alternate with one another--to be well and ill together is impossible.
But pleasure and pain are simultaneous, and the cessation of them is
simultaneous; e.g. in the case of drinking and thirsting, whereas good
and evil are not simultaneous, and do not cease simultaneously, and
therefore pleasure cannot be the same as good.
Callicles has already lost his temper, and can only be persuaded to go
on by the interposition of Gorgias. Socrates, having already guarded
against objections by distinguishing courage and knowledge from pleasure
and good, proceeds:--The good are good by the presence of good, and the
bad are bad by the presence of evil. And the brave and wise are good,
and the cowardly and foolish are bad. And he who feels pleasure is good,
and he who feels pain is bad, and both feel pleasure and pain in nearly
the same degree, and sometimes the bad man or coward in a greater
degree. Therefore the bad man or coward is as good as the brave or may
be even better.
