Having given these commands, the Creator remained in his own nature. And
his children, receiving from him the immortal principle, borrowed from
the world portions of earth, air, fire, water, hereafter to be returned,
which they fastened together, not with the adamantine bonds which bound
themselves, but by little invisible pegs, making each separate body out
of all the elements, subject to influx and efflux, and containing the
courses of the soul. These swelling and surging as in a river moved
irregularly and irrationally in all the six possible ways, forwards,
backwards, right, left, up and down. But violent as were the internal
and alimentary fluids, the tide became still more violent when the body
came into contact with flaming fire, or the solid earth, or gliding
waters, or the stormy wind; the motions produced by these impulses pass
through the body to the soul and have the name of sensations. Uniting
with the ever-flowing current, they shake the courses of the soul,
stopping the revolution of the same and twisting in all sorts of ways
the nature of the other, and the harmonical ratios of twos and threes
and the mean terms which connect them, until the circles are bent
and disordered and their motion becomes irregular. You may imagine a
position of the body in which the head is resting upon the ground, and
the legs are in the air, and the top is bottom and the left right. And
something similar happens when the disordered motions of the soul come
into contact with any external thing; they say the same or the other in
a manner which is the very opposite of the truth, and they are false
and foolish, and have no guiding principle in them. And when external
impressions enter in, they are really conquered, though they seem to
conquer.
By reason of these affections the soul is at first without intelligence,
but as time goes on the stream of nutriment abates, and the courses
of the soul regain their proper motion, and apprehend the same and the
other rightly, and become rational. The soul of him who has education
is whole and perfect and escapes the worst disease, but, if a man's
education be neglected, he walks lamely through life and returns good
for nothing to the world below. This, however, is an after-stage--at
present, we are only concerned with the creation of the body and soul.
The two divine courses were encased by the gods in a sphere which is
called the head, and is the god and lord of us. And to this they gave
the body to be a vehicle, and the members to be instruments, having the
power of flexion and extension. Such was the origin of legs and arms.
In the next place, the gods gave a forward motion to the human body,
because the front part of man was the more honourable and had authority.
And they put in a face in which they inserted organs to minister in all
things to the providence of the soul. They first contrived the eyes,
into which they conveyed a light akin to the light of day, making it
flow through the pupils. When the light of the eye is surrounded by the
light of day, then like falls upon like, and they unite and form one
body which conveys to the soul the motions of visible objects. But when
the visual ray goes forth into the darkness, then unlike falls upon
unlike--the eye no longer sees, and we go to sleep. The fire or light,
when kept in by the eyelids, equalizes the inward motions, and there
is rest accompanied by few dreams; only when the greater motions remain
they engender in us corresponding visions of the night. And now we shall
be able to understand the nature of reflections in mirrors. The fires
from within and from without meet about the smooth and bright surface
of the mirror; and because they meet in a manner contrary to the usual
mode, the right and left sides of the object are transposed. In
a concave mirror the top and bottom are inverted, but this is no
transposition.
