So Ivan Ilyitch meditated incoherently and by snatches, as he went on
striding along the pavement. The fresh air began to affect him, set his
mind working. Five minutes later he would have felt soothed and sleepy. But
all at once, scarcely two paces from the Great Prospect, he heard music. He
looked round. On the other side of the street, in a very
tumble-down-looking long wooden house of one storey, there was a great
fete, there was the scraping of violins, and the droning of a double bass,
and the squeaky tooting of a flute playing a very gay quadrille tune. Under
the windows stood an audience, mainly of women in wadded pelisses with
kerchiefs on their heads; they were straining every effort to see something
through a crack in the shutters. Evidently there was a gay party within.
The sound of the thud of dancing feet reached the other side of the street.
Ivan Ilyitch saw a policeman standing not far off, and went up to him.
"Whose house is that, brother?" he asked, flinging his expensive fur coat
open, just far enough to allow the policeman to see the imposing decoration
on his breast.
"It belongs to the registration clerk Pseldonimov," answered the
policeman, drawing himself up instantly, discerning the decoration.
"Pseldonimov? Bah! Pseldonimov! What is he up to? Getting married?"
"Yes, your Honour, to a daughter of a titular councillor, Mlekopitaev, a
titular councillor ... used to serve in the municipal department. That
house goes with the bride."
"So that now the house is Pseldonimov's and not Mlekopitaev's?"
"Yes, Pseldonimov's, your Honour. It was Mlekopitaev's, but now it is
Pseldonimov's."
"H'm! I am asking you, my man, because I am his chief. I am a general in
the same office in which Pseldonimov serves."
"Just so, your Excellency."
The policeman drew himself up more stiffly than ever, while Ivan Ilyitch
seemed to ponder. He stood still and meditated....
Yes, Pseldonimov really was in his department and in his own office; he
remembered that. He was a little clerk with a salary of ten roubles a
month. As Mr. Pralinsky had received his department very lately he might
not have remembered precisely all his subordinates, but Pseldonimov he
remembered just because of his surname. It had caught his eye from the very
first, so that at the time he had had the curiosity to look with special
attention at the possessor of such a surname. He remembered now a very
young man with a long hooked nose, with tufts of flaxen hair, lean and
ill-nourished, in an impossible uniform, and with unmentionables so
impossible as to be actually unseemly; he remembered how the thought had
flashed through his mind at the time: shouldn't he give the poor fellow ten
roubles for Christmas, to spend on his wardrobe? But as the poor fellow's
face was too austere, and his expression extremely unprepossessing, even
exciting repulsion, the good-natured idea somehow faded away of itself, so
Pseldonimov did not get his tip. He had been the more surprised when this
same Pseldonimov had not more than a week before asked for leave to be
married. Ivan Ilyitch remembered that he had somehow not had time to go
into the matter, so that the matter of the marriage had been settled
offhand, in haste. But yet he did remember exactly that Pseldonimov was
receiving a wooden house and four hundred roubles in cash as dowry with his
bride. The circumstance had surprised him at the time; he remembered that
he had made a slight jest over the juxtaposition of the names Pseldonimov
and Mlekopitaev. He remembered all that clearly.
