The convicts robbed one another without shame. Each prisoner had his
little box fitted with a padlock, in which he kept the things entrusted
to him by the administration. Although these boxes were authorised, that
did not prevent them from being broken into. The reader can easily
imagine what clever thieves were found among us. A prisoner who was
sincerely devoted to me--I say it without boasting--stole my Bible from
me, the only book allowed in the convict prison. He told me of it the
same day, not from repentance, but because he pitied me when he saw me
looking for it everywhere. We had among our companions of the chain
several convicts called "innkeepers," who sold spirits, and became
comparatively rich by doing so. I shall speak of this further on, for
the liquor traffic deserves special study.
A great number of prisoners had been deported for smuggling, which
explains how it was that drink was brought secretly into the convict
prison, under so severe a surveillance as ours was. In passing it may be
remarked that smuggling is an offence apart. Would it be believed that
money, the solid profit from the affair, possesses often only secondary
importance for the smuggler? It is all the same an authentic fact. He
works by vocation. In his style he is a poet. He risks all he possesses,
exposes himself to terrible dangers, intrigues, invents, gets out of a
scrape, and brings everything to a happy end by a sort of inspiration.
This passion is as violent as that of play.
I knew a prisoner of colossal stature who was the mildest, the most
peaceable, and most manageable man it was possible to see. We often
asked one another how he had been deported. He had such a calm, sociable
character, that during the whole time that he passed at the convict
prison, he never quarrelled with any one. Born in Western Russia, where
he lived on the frontier, he had been sent to hard labour for smuggling.
Naturally, then, he could not resist his desire to smuggle spirits into
the prison. How many times was he not punished for it, and heaven knows
how much he feared the rods. This dangerous trade brought him in but
slender profits. It was the speculator who got rich at his expense. Each
time he was punished he wept like an old woman, and swore by all that
was holy that he would never be caught at such things again. He kept his
vow for an entire month, but he ended by yielding once more to his
passion. Thanks to these amateurs of smuggling, spirits were always to
be had in the convict prison.
Another source of income which, without enriching the prisoners, was
constantly and beneficently turned to account, was alms-giving. The
upper classes of our Russian society do not know to what an extent
merchants, shopkeepers, and our people generally, commiserate the
"unfortunate!"[3] Alms were always forthcoming, and consisted generally
of little white loaves, sometimes of money, but very rarely. Without
alms, the existence of the convicts, and above all that of the accused,
who are badly fed, would be too painful. These alms are shared equally
between all the prisoners. If the gifts are not sufficient, the little
loaves are divided into halves, and sometimes into six pieces, so that
each convict may have his share. I remember the first alms, a small
piece of money, that I received. A short time after my arrival, one
morning, as I was coming back from work with a soldier escort, I met a
mother and her daughter, a child of ten, as beautiful as an angel. I had
already seen them once before.
