For the first two years the lad used to come home from the lyceum
for the holidays. While Varvara Petrovna and Stepan Trofimovitch were
staying in Petersburg he was sometimes present at the literary evenings
at his mother's, he listened and looked on. He spoke little, and was
quiet and shy as before. His manner to Stepan Trofimovitch was as
affectionately attentive as ever, but there was a shade of reserve in
it. He unmistakably avoided distressing, lofty subjects or reminiscences
of the past. By his mother's wish he entered the army on completing
the school course, and soon received a commission in one of the most
brilliant regiments of the Horse Guards. He did not come to show himself
to his mother in his uniform, and his letters from Petersburg began to
be infrequent. Varvara Petrovna sent him money without stint, though
after the emancipation the revenue from her estate was so diminished
that at first her income was less than half what it had been before. She
had, however, a considerable sum laid by through years of economy.
She took great interest in her son's success in the highest Petersburg
society. Where she had failed, the wealthy young officer with
expectations succeeded. He renewed acquaintances which she had hardly
dared to dream of, and was welcomed everywhere with pleasure. But very
soon rather strange rumours reached Varvara Petrovna. The young man
had suddenly taken to riotous living with a sort of frenzy. Not that he
gambled or drank too much; there was only talk of savage recklessness,
of running over people in the street with his horses, of brutal conduct
to a lady of good society with whom he had a liaison and whom he
afterwards publicly insulted. There was a callous nastiness about this
affair. It was added, too, that he had developed into a regular bully,
insulting people for the mere pleasure of insulting them. Varvara
Petrovna was greatly agitated and distressed. Stepan Trofimovitch
assured her that this was only the first riotous effervescence of a too
richly endowed nature, that the storm would subside and that this was
only like the youth of Prince Harry, who caroused with Falstaff, Poins,
and Mrs. Quickly, as described by Shakespeare.
This time Varvara Petrovna did not cry out, "Nonsense, nonsense!" as she
was very apt to do in later years in response to Stepan Trofimovitch. On
the contrary she listened very eagerly, asked him to explain this theory
more exactly, took up Shakespeare herself and with great attention read
the immortal chronicle. But it did not comfort her, and indeed she did
not find the resemblance very striking. With feverish impatience she
awaited answers to some of her letters. She had not long to wait for
them. The fatal news soon reached her that "Prince Harry" had been
involved in two duels almost at once, was entirely to blame for both of
them, had killed one of his adversaries on the spot and had maimed the
other and was awaiting his trial in consequence. The case ended in his
being degraded to the ranks, deprived of the rights of a nobleman, and
transferred to an infantry line regiment, and he only escaped worse
punishment by special favour.
