I found the whole party walking in the park, and was able to get an
interview with her only after supper. This time the Frenchman was
absent from the meal, and the General seemed to be in a more expansive
vein. Among other things, he thought it necessary to remind me that he
would be sorry to see me playing at the gaming-tables. In his opinion,
such conduct would greatly compromise him--especially if I were to lose
much. "And even if you were to WIN much I should be compromised," he
added in a meaning sort of way. "Of course I have no RIGHT to order
your actions, but you yourself will agree that..." As usual, he did not
finish his sentence. I answered drily that I had very little money in
my possession, and that, consequently, I was hardly in a position to
indulge in any conspicuous play, even if I did gamble. At last, when
ascending to my own room, I succeeded in handing Polina her winnings,
and told her that, next time, I should not play for her.
"Why not?" she asked excitedly.
"Because I wish to play FOR MYSELF," I replied with a feigned glance of
astonishment. "That is my sole reason."
"Then are you so certain that your roulette-playing will get us out of
our difficulties?" she inquired with a quizzical smile.
I said very seriously, "Yes," and then added: "Possibly my certainty
about winning may seem to you ridiculous; yet, pray leave me in peace."
Nonetheless she insisted that I ought to go halves with her in the
day's winnings, and offered me 800 gulden on condition that henceforth,
I gambled only on those terms; but I refused to do so, once and for
all--stating, as my reason, that I found myself unable to play on
behalf of any one else, "I am not unwilling so to do," I added, "but in
all probability I should lose."
"Well, absurd though it be, I place great hopes on your playing of
roulette," she remarked musingly; "wherefore, you ought to play as my
partner and on equal shares; wherefore, of course, you will do as I
wish."
Then she left me without listening to any further protests on my part.
III
On the morrow she said not a word to me about gambling. In fact, she
purposely avoided me, although her old manner to me had not changed:
the same serene coolness was hers on meeting me--a coolness that was
mingled even with a spice of contempt and dislike. In short, she was at
no pains to conceal her aversion to me. That I could see plainly. Also,
she did not trouble to conceal from me the fact that I was necessary to
her, and that she was keeping me for some end which she had in view.
Consequently there became established between us relations which, to a
large extent, were incomprehensible to me, considering her general
pride and aloofness. For example, although she knew that I was madly in
love with her, she allowed me to speak to her of my passion (though she
could not well have showed her contempt for me more than by permitting
me, unhindered and unrebuked, to mention to her my love).
