"What stupid rubbish!" she cried.
"I care not whether it be wise or stupid," I cried in return. "I only
know that in your presence I must speak, speak, speak. Therefore, I am
speaking. I lose all conceit when I am with you, and everything ceases
to matter."
"Why should I have wanted you to leap from the Shlangenberg?" she said
drily, and (I think) with wilful offensiveness. "THAT would have been
of no use to me."
"Splendid!" I shouted. "I know well that you must have used the words
'of no use' in order to crush me. I can see through you. 'Of no use,'
did you say? Why, to give pleasure is ALWAYS of use; and, as for
barbarous, unlimited power--even if it be only over a fly--why, it is a
kind of luxury. Man is a despot by nature, and loves to torture. You,
in particular, love to do so."
I remember that at this moment she looked at me in a peculiar way. The
fact is that my face must have been expressing all the maze of
senseless, gross sensations which were seething within me. To this day
I can remember, word for word, the conversation as I have written it
down. My eyes were suffused with blood, and the foam had caked itself
on my lips. Also, on my honour I swear that, had she bidden me cast
myself from the summit of the Shlangenberg, I should have done it. Yes,
had she bidden me in jest, or only in contempt and with a spit in my
face, I should have cast myself down.
"Oh no! Why so? I believe you," she said, but in such a manner--in the
manner of which, at times, she was a mistress--and with such a note of
disdain and viperish arrogance in her tone, that God knows I could have
killed her.
Yes, at that moment she stood in peril. I had not lied to her about
that.
"Surely you are not a coward?" suddenly she asked me.
"I do not know," I replied. "Perhaps I am, but I do not know. I have
long given up thinking about such things."
"If I said to you, 'Kill that man,' would you kill him?"
"Whom?"
"Whomsoever I wish?"
"The Frenchman?"
"Do not ask me questions; return me answers. I repeat, whomsoever I
wish? I desire to see if you were speaking seriously just now."
She awaited my reply with such gravity and impatience that I found the
situation unpleasant.
"Do YOU, rather, tell me," I said, "what is going on here? Why do you
seem half-afraid of me? I can see for myself what is wrong. You are the
step-daughter of a ruined and insensate man who is smitten with love
for this devil of a Blanche. And there is this Frenchman, too, with his
mysterious influence over you. Yet, you actually ask me such a
question! If you do not tell me how things stand, I shall have to put
in my oar and do something. Are you ashamed to be frank with me? Are
you shy of me?"
