"No, prince!" said Maria Alexandrovna, a little disconcerted. "My husband
is not a procurer."
"I'll bet anything that uncle has mixed you up with Anna Nicolaevna
Antipova," said Mosgliakoff, but stopped suddenly on observing the look on
Maria Alexandrovna's face.
"Ye--yes, of course, Anna Nicolaevna. A--An. What the deuce! I'm always
f--forgetting; Antipova, Antipova, of course," continued the prince.
"No, prince, you have made a great mistake," remarked Maria Alexandrovna,
with a bitter smile. "I am not Anna Nicolaevna at all, and I confess I
should never have believed that you would not recognise me. You have
astonished me, prince. I am your old friend, Maria Alexandrovna Moskaloff.
Don't you remember Maria Alexandrovna?"
"M--Maria Alexandrovna! think of that; and I thought she was w--what's her
name. Y--yes, Anna Vasilievna! _C'est delicieux._ W--why I thought you were
going to take me to this A--Anna Matveyevna. Dear me! _C'est ch--charmant!_
It often happens so w--with me. I get taken to the wrong house; but I'm
v--very pleased, v--very pleased! So you're not Nastasia Va--silievna? How
interesting."
"I'm Maria Alexandrovna, prince; _Maria Alexandrovna_! Oh! how naughty you
are, Prince, to forget your best, best friend!"
"Ye--es! ye--yes! best friend; best friend, for--forgive me!" stammered the
old man, staring at Zina.
"That's my daughter Zina. You are not acquainted yet, prince. She wasn't
here when you were last in the town, in the year ---- you know."
"Oh, th--this is your d--daughter!" muttered the old man, staring hungrily
at Zina through his glasses. "Dear me, dear me. _Ch--charmante,
ch--armante!_ But what a lo--ovely girl," he added, evidently impressed.
"Tea! prince," remarked Maria Alexandrovna, directing his attention to the
page standing before him with the tray. The prince took a cup, and
examined the boy, who had a nice fresh face of his own.
"Ah! this is your l--little boy? Wh--what a charming little b--boy! and does
he be--behave nicely?"
"But, prince," interrupted Maria Alexandrovna, impatiently, "what is this
dreadful occurrence I hear of? I confess I was nearly beside myself with
terror when I heard of it. Were you not hurt at all? _Do_ take care. One
cannot make light of this sort of thing."
"Upset, upset; the c--coachman upset me!" cried the prince, with unwonted
vivacity. "I thought it was the end of the world, and I was fri--frightened
out of my wits. I didn't expect it; I didn't, indeed! and my co--oachman is
to blame for it all. I trust you, my friend, to lo--ok into the matter
well. I feel sure he was making an attempt on my life!"
"All right, all right, uncle," said Paul; "I'll see about it. But look
here--forgive him, just this once, uncle; just this once, won't you?"
"N--not I! Not for anything! I'm sure he wants my life, he and Lavrenty
too. It's--it's the 'new ideas;' it's Com--Communism, in the fullest sense
of the word. I daren't meet them anywhere."
"You are right, you are quite right, prince," cried Maria Alexandrovna.
"You don't know how I suffer myself from these wretched people. I've just
been obliged to change two of my servants; and you've no idea how _stupid_
they are, prince."
