"If there be any chivalry left in our modern society, it is only in the
highest circles of the aristocracy. A prince is a prince either in a hovel
or in a palace! _You_ are more or less a representative of the highest
circles; your extraction is aristocratic. I, too, am not altogether a
stranger to the upper ten, and it's a bad fledgling that fouls its own
nest! However, my dear Paul, you'll forget your Shakespeare yet, and
you'll understand all this much better than I can explain it. I foresee
it! Besides, I'm sure you are only joking; you did not mean what you said.
Stay here, dear Paul, will you? I'm just going upstairs to make inquiries
after the prince, he may want something." And Maria Alexandrovna left the
room hurriedly.
"Maria Alexandrovna seems highly delighted that Mrs. Antipova, who thinks
so much of herself, did not get hold of the prince!" remarked the widow;
"Mrs. Antipova must be gnashing her teeth with annoyance just now! She's a
relation, too, as I've been pointing out to Maria Alexandrovna."
Observing that no one answered her, and casting her eyes on Zina and
Mosgliakoff, the widow suddenly recollected herself, and discreetly left
the room, as though to fetch something. However, she rewarded herself for
her discretion, by putting her ear to the keyhole, as soon as she had
closed the door after her.
Pavel Alexandrovitch immediately turned to Zina. He was in a state of
great agitation; his voice shook.
"Zenaida Afanassievna, are you angry with me?" he began, in a timid,
beseechful tone.
"With you? Why?" asked Zina, blushing a little, and raising her
magnificent eyes to his face.
"For coming earlier. I couldn't help it; I couldn't wait another
fortnight; I dreamed of you every night; so I flew off to learn my fate.
But you are frowning, you are angry;--oh; am I really not to hear anything
definite, even now?"
Zina distinctly and decidedly frowned.
"I supposed you would speak of this," she said, with her eyes drooped
again, but with a firm and severe voice, in which some annoyance was
perceptible; "and as the expectation of it was very tedious, the sooner
you had your say, the better! You insist upon an answer again, do you?
Very well, I say _wait_, just as I said it before. I now repeat, as I did
then, that I have not as yet decided, and cannot therefore promise to be
your wife. You cannot force a girl to such a decision, Pavel
Alexandrovitch! However, to relieve your mind, I will add, that I do not
as yet refuse you absolutely; and pray observe that I give you thus much
hope of a favourable reply, merely out of forced deference to your
impatience and agitation; and that if I think fit afterwards to reject you
altogether, you are not to blame me for having given you false hopes. So
now you know."
"Oh, but--but--what's the use of that? What hope am I to get out of that,
Zina?" cried Mosgliakoff in piteous tones.
