The next day, about nine o'clock, the second mate came to me, and told
me they wanted more water, and, if I pleased to order the boat on shore,
he would go if I thought fit, and see if he could get any fresh
provisions, the purser being indisposed.
I told him, yes, with all my heart; that the Dutch captain last night
had given me a letter to the governor, to desire we might be furnished
with whatever we had occasion for, and that I had thoughts of calling
for him to go on shore and deliver it, and that, perhaps, the governor
might make him some present in compliment to the English nation.
He seemed extremely pleased at this, and even elevated, and going out to
give orders about the boat, ordered the long-boat and the shallop, and
came in again, and asked me whom I pleased to have go along with him. I
answered, smilingly to him. Pick and choose then yourself, only leave
the pinnace's crew that went with me yesterday, because they must go on
board again to carry the Dutch captain a little present of English beer
that I am going to send him, and fetch aboard their drunken coxswain,
who was so intoxicated that we were fain to leave him behind us.
This was just what he wanted; and we found he chose all the chief rogues
of the conspiracy; such as the boatswain, the gunner, the midshipmen we
spoke of, and such of the foremast men as he had secured in his design;
and of the rest, we judged they were in the plot, because he took them
with him; and thus having the long-boat and the shallop, with about
six-and-thirty men with them, away they went to fill water.
When they came on shore, they had presently three Dutchmen, set by the
Dutch captain, unperceived by them, to be spies upon them, and to mark
exactly what they did; and at the same time found three boats of
Dutchmen at the watering-place, (for the captain had procured two boats
to go on shore from two other ships,) full of men also, having
acquainted them with the design. As soon as our boats came on shore, the
men appeared to be all very much engaged in something more than
ordinary, and, instead of separating, as it was expected they should,
they went all into one boat, and there they were mighty busily engaged
in discourse one with another.
The Dutch captain had given the charge of these things to a brisk bold
fellow, his mate, and he took the hints the captain gave him so well,
that nothing could have been better; for, finding the men thus in a kind
of a cabal, he takes four of his men with muskets on their shoulders,
like the governor's men, and goes with them to the Englishmen's boat,
and asks for their officer, the second mate, who, upon this, appears. He
tells them he comes from the governor, to know if they were Englishmen,
and what their business was on shore there: the mate answered, they came
from on board the English ship, that they were driven there by stress of
weather, and hoped they might have leave to fill water and buy
necessaries for their money.
