"I will take the skins of the hares which I have shot and will make
me something," he thought. He washed and cleaned them, but he needed
a knife and he set about making one. He split one end of a tough piece
of wood, thrust his stone blade in it and wound it with cocoa fibre.
His stone knife now had a handle. He could now cut the skins quite
well. But what should he do for needle and thread? Maybe the vines
would do. "But they are hardly strong enough," he thought. He pulled
the sinews from the bones of the rabbit and found them hard. Maybe
he could use them. He found fish skeletons on the seashore and bored
a hole in the end of the small, sharp rib bones. Then he threaded his
bone needle with the rabbit sinews and attempted to sew, but it would
not go. His needle broke. The skin was too hard. He bored holes in
the edge of the pieces of skin and sewed through the holes. This went
very well.
He sewed the skins together with the hair side inward, made himself
a jacket, a pair of trousers, a hat, and finally covered his parasol
with rabbit skin, for the rain had already dripped through the leaves
of it. All went well, only the trousers did not fit. He loosened them
and puckered them to no purpose. "Anyway," he thought, "I am now well
protected from the cold, when it does come."
[Illustration: ROBINSON IN HIS NEW SUIT]
XXI
HOW ROBINSON LAYS UP A STORE OF FOOD
Now for the food. Could Robinson preserve the meat? He had often heard
his mother tell about preserving meat in salt. He had even eaten salt
meat, pickled meat. But where could he get salt?
One day when the wind blew hard the water was driven upon the shore
and filled a little hollow. After a few days the ground glistened
white as snow where the water had been. Was it snow? Robinson took
it in his hands and put it in his mouth. It was salt. The sun had
evaporated the water in the hollow--had vaporized it--and the air had
drunk it up. What was left behind? Salt. Now he could get salt as long
as he needed it.
He took cocoanut shells and strewed salt in them. Then he cut the
rabbit meat in thin strips, rubbed them with salt, and laid them one
on the other in the salt in the shells. He covered it over with a
layer of salt. He put over each shell the half of a larger one and
weighted it down with stones. After a period of fourteen days he found
the meat quite red. It had pickled.
But he did not stop here. He gathered and stored in his cellar
cocoanuts and corn in such quantities that he would be supplied for
a whole winter. It seemed best to catch a number of rabbits, build
a house for them and keep them. Then he could kill one occasionally
and have fresh meat. Then it came to him that goats would be much better,
for they would give milk. He determined immediately to have a herd
of goats. He made a string or lasso out of cocoa fibre.
