My Affairs being settled at _Amsterdam_, we had the Curiosity to see
_Antwerp_, which is a City where a Stranger may employ his Time very
agreeably, for a longer Term than we cou'd conveniently spend there. We
lodg'd at a House where an _English_ Nobleman also had an Apartment. He
had been in that City about two Months, kept a handsome Equipage, was
very young, and a well bred Gentleman, of great value among the Ladies,
and had he been able to support the Character he bore at first
appearance here, it would have convinced the World there is very little
difference between a Footman and a Nobleman, where neither Sense nor
Money are wanting to carry on the Resemblance. I must anticipate the
dismal Exit of this unfortunate Gentleman which happen'd not till about
two Years afterwards. While he was in his Splendour at _Antwerp_, and
cou'd answer every bodies Expectations as to Money matters, it was not
any Mans Business to pry into his Pedigree; but when his Conduct began
to be observ'd, and taken Notice to be full of Shuffling and Demurs in
the Payment of small Bills, there was a Jealousy spread about the Town
that the Lord G---- would prove a Cheat, so his Credit began to sink in
the Shops, but it held up still among the Ladies, where a handsome
Personage, and a charming Tongue is often ready Money. But it was not
long before he began also to be suspected from this Quarter; his Visits
were not so frequent, his Treats much more sparing; and especially one
Lady, who was his greatest Admirer, and most capable to make Him Happy
on all Accounts, was oblig'd to expose him, and make this Phantom of
Nobility evaporate. In the frequent Visits he pay'd this Lady, he had
observ'd a very handsome Diamond Ring upon her Finger, which was no
less remarkable for its uncommon Form, than intrinsick Value, at a low
Estimate being judg'd to be worth 80_l_. Sterling. The Gentleman had
often thrown out a great many Compliments upon it, which usually tended
towards extolling the Ladies Judgment and Fancy in the choice and
ordering of that Jewel, for she wanting to her self, let him and every
body else know, it was a Thought of her own. The Gentleman in the midst
of one of his Panegyricks upon this little Charmer, begg'd the Favour of
the Lady that he might borrow it for a Day or two till he had shewn it a
Jeweller, for he design'd to have one made in the same Form. The Lady
was not a little pleas'd that her Fancy was like to become a Pattern to
the Town, willingly drew it off her Finger, not in the least suspecting
any Trick, for as yet his Fame was untouch'd. I think he made two or
three Visits without returning the Ring, pretending the Workman was
dilatory in taking a Pattern; but 'tis suppos'd he wanted time to
prepare himself for a Flight, and brush off with the Ring. However, none
of these Suspicions enter'd the Ladies Head, he not being her Aversion.
About three or four Days after, a Lady visiting her, told her the
_English_ Nobleman had parted with his Chariot, pawn'd his best Suit of
Cloaths, and that his Credit was not only very low, but it was suppos'd
he wou'd in a Day or two be oblig'd to Decamp, or take up his Quarters
in a Jail. 'Tis obvious to imagine that the first Thing that came into
the Ladies Mind upon this Occasion was her Diamond Ring; but, as she
confess'd afterwards to a Friend, the Compassion she had for the
Gentleman's Circumstances had so large a Place in her Heart, that she
does not remember to have had any concern upon her in Relation to the
Jewel; from whence we may gather that Evil Fate that hangs over some
Persons Heads, for had but this unfortunate Person pursu'd the Interest
he had with that Lady, whilst he was in flourishing Circumstances, he
might easily have carried it to the _non plus ultra_, and became Master,
of 15000, as she her self own'd when she recover'd her Passion and began
to think calmly. However, the Diamond Ring was not to be neglected, for
though she had been willing to have parted with her Interest in it to
Succour the Gentleman in Distress, it was too large an Alms, and would
perhaps have been judg'd by the World rather an Instance of her
Forwardness and Indiscretion than of her Charity. Her Friends before
advis'd her to demand the Ring, which she did that Evening, but
understood he had pawn'd it for the full Value; upon which she was
(though much against her Inclination) oblig'd to Arrest him, and had him
clap'd up in Prison: But however, she was a very kind Jailor. It is a
Custom, having the Force of the Law in the _Netherlands_, that when a
Debtor is kept in Prison, it shall be at the Charges of the Creditors;
in which also they observe a kind of Proportion, that a Gentleman is to
be allow'd like a Gentleman, and a Mechanick is to be content with a
smaller Allowance. The Lady comply'd very willingly with the Custom, and
her Prisoner being reputed a Person of Quality, it was an excellent
Disguise to show her Liberality. But afterwards being weary of the
Charge, and finding by the Information of several _Englishmen_ that
pass'd thro' _Antwerp_, that her Prisoner was not the Person he
pretended to be, but a meer Sharper and Knight of the Post, she
slacken'd in her Charity, and gradually brought him down to a common
Allowance, and at last discharg'd him. His Life after that was a meer
Romance; He first went into _Gaunt_, here he took up a large Apartment
of four or five Rooms well furnish'd, which he sold after a Fortnight,
taking an advantage of the Landlady's Abscence. With the strength of
this Plunder, he made a Figure for two or three Months at _Brussels_,
where he fought a Duel with _H.S._ an _English_ Gentleman. This Accident
drove him from _Brussels_, but finding he was not secure in the _Spanish
Flanders_, he crossed the Lines, spent the remainder of his Substance at
_Lisle_, and he directed his Course to _Dunkirk_, from whence 'tis said
he design'd to take Shipping for _England_. But here he finish'd his
Misfortunes as I was inform'd upon the Spot, by a Merchant who resided
in that Town, and saw his Exit. This _English_ Merchant walking upon the
Key according to Custom, observ'd a young Gentleman walking in a
Melancholy Posture, and thinking he knew him, though the poor Dress he
was in would not suffer him to make a positive Judgment; however, he
stept up towards him, and upon a nearer View, was convinc'd he was the
Person he took him for. This Merchant had been acquainted with him at
_Antwerp_, when he bore the Character of an _English_ Nobleman and lived
with great Splendor. The Gentleman more dash'd, as I suppose, to jump
upon one who had heard of his Tricks, than for the meanness of his
Circumstances, told the Merchant he was an unfortunate Man, and Things
were now so desperate with him, that he had no way left to relieve
himself but by a Halter. The Merchant having a charitable regard for his
Circumstance, though he knew him to be a very undeserving Object, told
him, he wou'd provide him with a Lodging and Diet till he had a Return
of Money, the Gentleman answer'd frankly he expected no Returns, nor did
he know of any Body that wou'd Assist him, nor you'd he make any
Demands. This Account encourag'd the Merchant to be more Charitable, so
he conducted him to an Inn, desiring the Master of the House to furnish
him with Diet and Lodging till further Orders. Two Days after, the
Merchant coming to Visit him about Ten in the Morning, when they
imagin'd he was still in Bed, a Servant being sent up to call him, he
was hang'd upon the Beam, in one Corner of his Chamber. The Merchant had
a great Curiosity to find out the Pedigree of this Romantick Gentleman,
but you'd get no Authentick Account. I told him I was inform'd at
_Antwerp_, that he was Footman to a Person of Quality, and that he had
robb'd his Master, and fled into the _Netherlands_ to escape Justice,
which made him always unwilling to think of returning Home.
