Had the Prince of _Conde_ contented himself with this Share of good
Fortune, his Victory had been uncontested: But being pushed forward by a
vehement Heat of Temper (which he was noted for) and flush'd with this
extraordinary Success, he resolv'd to force the whole Confederate Army
to a Battle. In order to which, he immediately led his Forces between
our Second Line, and our Line of Baggage; by which means the latter were
entirely cut off; and were subjected to the Will of the Enemy, who fell
directly to plunder; in which they were not a little assisted by the
routed _Spaniards_ themselves, who did not disdain at that time to share
with the Enemy in the plundering of their Friends and Allies.
The _English_ Voluntiers had their Share of this ill Fortune with the
rest; their Waggon appointed them being among those intercepted by the
Enemy; and I, for my Part, lost every Thing but Life, which yet was
saved almost as unaccountably as my Fellow-Soldiers had lost theirs. The
Baggage, as I have said, being cut off, and at the Mercy of the Enemy,
every one endeavour'd to escape through, or over the Hedges. And as in
all Cases of like Confusion, one endeavours to save himself upon the
Ruins of others: So here, he that found himself stopt by another in
getting over the Cap of a Hedge, pull'd him back to make way for
himself, and perhaps met with the same Fortune from a Third, to the
Destruction of all. I was then in the Vigour of my Youth, and none of
the least active, and perceiving how it had far'd with some before me,
I clapt my left Leg upon the Shoulders of one who was thus contending
with another, and with a Spring threw my self over both their Heads and
the Hedge at the same time. By this Means I not only sav'd my Life (for
they were all cut to Pieces that could not get over) but from an
Eminence, which I soon after attain'd, I had an Opportunity of seeing,
and making my Observations upon the remaining Part of that glorious
Conflict.
It was from that advantageous Situation, that I presently discover'd
that the Imperialists, who led the Van, had now join'd the main Body.
And, I confess, it was with an almost inexpressible Pleasure, that I
beheld, about three a-Clock, with what intrepid Fury they fell upon the
Enemy. In short, both Armies were universally engag'd, and with great
Obstinacy disputed the Victory till Eleven at Night. At which Time the
_French_, being pretty well surfeited, made their Retreat. Nevertheless,
to secure it by a Stratagem, they left their lighted Matches hanging in
the Hedges, and waving with the Air, to conceal it from the Confederate
Army.
About two Hours after, the Confederate Forces follow'd the Example of
their Enemies, and drew off. And tho' neither Army had much Reason to
boast; yet as the Prince of _Orange_ remained last in the Field; and die
_French_ had lost what they before had gain'd, the Glory of the Day fell
to the Prince of _Orange_; who, altho' but twenty-four Years of Age, had
the Suffrage of Friend and Foe, of having play'd the Part of an old and
experienc'd Officer.
