'SIR, yours received, have at present little to reply. Last post you had
bills of loading, with invoice of what had loaden for your account in
Hamburgh factor bound for said port. What have farther orders for, shall
be dispatched with expedition. Markets slacken much on this side; cannot
sell the iron for more than 37s. Wish had your orders if shall part with
it at that rate. No ships since the 11th. London fleet may be in the
roads before the late storm, so hope they are safe: if have not insured,
please omit the same till hear farther; the weather proving good, hope
the danger is over.
My last transmitted three bills exchange, import L315; please signify if
are come to hand, and accepted, and give credit in account current to
your humble servant.'
I pretend to say there is nothing in all this letter, though appearing
to have the face of a considerable dealer, but what may be taken any
way, _pro_ or _con_. The Hamburgh factor may be a ship, or a horse--be
bound to Hamburgh or London. What shall be dispatched may be one thing,
or any thing, or every thing, in a former letter. No ships since the
11th, may be no ships come in, or no ships gone out. The London fleet
being in the roads, it may be the London fleet from Hull to London, or
from London to Hull, both being often at sea together. The roads may be
Yarmouth roads, or Grimsby, or, indeed, any where.
By such a way of writing, no orders can be binding to him that gives
them, or to him they are given to. A merchant writes to his factor at
Lisbon:--
'Please to send, per first ship, 150 chests best Seville, and 200 pipes
best Lisbon white. May value yourself per exchange L1250 sterling, for
the account of above orders. Suppose you can send the sloop to Seville
for the ordered chests, &c. I am.'
Here is the order to send a cargo, with a _please to send_; so the
factor may let it alone if he does not please.[8] The order is 150
chests Seville; it is supposed he means oranges, but it may be 150
chests orange-trees as well, or chests of oil, or any thing. Lisbon
white, may be wine or any thing else, though it is supposed to be wine.
He may draw L1250, but he may refuse to accept it if he pleases, for any
thing such an order as that obliges him.
On the contrary, orders ought to be plain and explicit; and he ought to
have assured him, that on his drawing on him, his bills should be
honoured--that is, accepted and paid.
I know this affectation of style is accounted very grand, looks modish,
and has a kind of majestic greatness in it; but the best merchants in
the world are come off from it, and now choose to write plain and
intelligibly: much less should country tradesmen, citizens, and
shopkeepers, whose business is plainness and mere trade, make use of it.
