When he was gone, Amy changed her countenance indeed, and looked as
merry as ever she did in her life. "Dear madam," says she, "what does
this gentleman mean?" "Nay, Amy," said I, "he means to do us good, you
see, don't he? I know no other meaning he can have, for he can get
nothing by me." "I warrant you, madam," says she, "he'll ask you a
favour by-and-by." "No, no, you are mistaken, Amy, I dare say," said I;
"you have heard what he said, didn't you?" "Ay," says Amy, "it's no
matter for that, you shall see what he will do after dinner." "Well,
well, Amy," says I, "you have hard thoughts of him. I cannot be of your
opinion: I don't see anything in him yet that looks like it." "As to
that, madam," says Amy, "I don't see anything of it yet neither; but
what should move a gentleman to take pity of us as he does?" "Nay," says
I, "that's a hard thing too, that we should judge a man to be wicked
because he's charitable, and vicious because he's kind." "Oh, madam,"
says Amy, "there's abundance of charity begins in that vice; and he is
not so unacquainted with things as not to know that poverty is the
strongest incentive--a temptation against which no virtue is powerful
enough to stand out. He knows your condition as well as you do." "Well,
and what then?" "Why, then, he knows too that you are young and
handsome, and he has the surest bait in the world to take you with."
"Well, Amy," said I, "but he may find himself mistaken too in such a
thing as that." "Why, madam," says Amy, "I hope you won't deny him if he
should offer it."
"What d'ye mean by that, hussy?" said I. "No, I'd starve first."
"I hope not, madam, I hope you would be wiser; I'm sure if he will set
you up, as he talks of, you ought to deny him nothing; and you will
starve if you do not consent, that's certain."
"What! consent to lie with him for bread? Amy," said I, "how can you
talk so!"
"Nay, madam," says Amy, "I don't think you would for anything else; it
would not be lawful for anything else, but for bread, madam; why, nobody
can starve, there's no bearing that, I'm sure."
"Ay," says I, "but if he would give me an estate to live on, he should
not lie with me, I assure you."
"Why, look you, madam; if he would but give you enough to live easy
upon, he should lie with me for it with all my heart."
"That's a token, Amy, of inimitable kindness to me," said I, "and I know
how to value it; but there's more friendship than honesty in it, Amy."
"Oh, madam," says Amy, "I'd do anything to get you out of this sad
condition; as to honesty, I think honesty is out of the question when
starving is the case. Are not we almost starved to death?"
