Here I relieved myself with the constant assistant of the afflicted, I
mean tears; for, relating to her how I was received by the other of my
husband's relations, it made me burst into tears, and I cried vehemently
for a great while together, till I made the good old gentlewoman cry too
several times.
However, I came home from them all without any relief, and went on at
home till I was reduced to such inexpressible distress that is not to be
described. I had been several times after this at the old aunt's, for I
prevailed with her to promise me to go and talk with the other
relations, at least, that, if possible, she could bring some of them to
take off the children, or to contribute something towards their
maintenance. And, to do her justice, she did use her endeavour with
them; but all was to no purpose, they would do nothing, at least that
way. I think, with much entreaty, she obtained, by a kind of collection
among them all, about eleven or twelve shillings in money, which, though
it was a present comfort, was yet not to be named as capable to deliver
me from any part of the load that lay upon me.
There was a poor woman that had been a kind of a dependent upon our
family, and whom I had often, among the rest of the relations, been very
kind to; my maid put it into my head one morning to send to this poor
woman, and to see whether she might not be able to help in this dreadful
case.
I must remember it here, to the praise of this poor girl, my maid, that
though I was not able to give her any wages, and had told her so--nay, I
was not able to pay her the wages that I was in arrears to her--yet she
would not leave me; nay, and as long as she had any money, when I had
none, she would help me out of her own, for which, though I acknowledged
her kindness and fidelity, yet it was but a bad coin that she was paid
in at last, as will appear in its place.
Amy (for that was her name) put it into my thoughts to send for this
poor woman to come to me; for I was now in great distress, and I
resolved to do so. But just the very morning that I intended it, the old
aunt, with the poor woman in her company, came to see me; the good old
gentlewoman was, it seems, heartily concerned for me, and had been
talking again among those people, to see what she could do for me, but
to very little purpose.
You shall judge a little of my present distress by the posture she found
me in. I had five little children, the eldest was under ten years old,
and I had not one shilling in the house to buy them victuals, but had
sent Amy out with a silver spoon to sell it, and bring home something
from the butcher's; and I was in a parlour, sitting on the ground, with
a great heap of old rags, linen, and other things about me, looking them
over, to see if I had anything among them that would sell or pawn for a
little money, and had been crying ready to burst myself, to think what I
should do next.
