Here, being lodged on shore by my master's order, I had the charge
of the captain's business, he having seen me very diligent for my own
master; and in requital for his mistaken confidence, I found means to
secure, that is to say, to steal, about twenty moidores out of the
gold that was shipped on board by the merchants, and this was my first
adventure.
We had a tolerable voyage from hence to the Cape de Bona Speranza; and
I was reputed as a mighty diligent servant to my master, and very
faithful. I was diligent indeed, but I was very far from honest;
however, they thought me honest, which, by the way, was their very great
mistake. Upon this very mistake the captain took a particular liking to
me, and employed me frequently on his own occasion; and, on the other
hand, in recompense for my officious diligence, I received several
particular favours from him; particularly, I was, by the captain's
command, made a kind of a steward under the ship's steward, for such
provisions as the captain demanded for his own table. He had another
steward for his private stores besides, but my office concerned only
what the captain called for of the ship's stores for his private use.
However, by this means I had opportunity particularly to take care of my
master's man, and to furnish myself with sufficient provisions to make
me live much better than the other people in the ship; for the captain
seldom ordered anything out of the ship's stores, as above, but I snipt
some of it for my own share. We arrived at Goa, in the East Indies, in
about seven months from Lisbon, and remained there eight more; during
which time I had indeed nothing to do, my master being generally on
shore, but to learn everything that is wicked among the Portuguese, a
nation the most perfidious and the most debauched, the most insolent and
cruel, of any that pretend to call themselves Christians, in the world.
Thieving, lying, swearing, forswearing, joined to the most abominable
lewdness, was the stated practice of the ship's crew; adding to it,
that, with the most insufferable boasts of their own courage, they were,
generally speaking, the most complete cowards that I ever met with;
and the consequence of their cowardice was evident upon many occasions.
However, there was here and there one among them that was not so bad
as the rest; and, as my lot fell among them, it made me have the most
contemptible thoughts of the rest, as indeed they deserved.
I was exactly fitted for their society indeed; for I had no sense of
virtue or religion upon me. I had never heard much of either, except
what a good old parson had said to me when I was a child of about eight
or nine years old; nay, I was preparing and growing up apace to be as
wicked as anybody could be, or perhaps ever was. Fate certainly thus
directed my beginning, knowing that I had work which I had to do in the
world, which nothing but one hardened against all sense of honesty
or religion could go through; and yet, even in this state of original
wickedness, I entertained such a settled abhorrence of the abandoned
vileness of the Portuguese, that I could not but hate them most heartily
from the beginning, and all my life afterwards. They were so brutishly
wicked, so base and perfidious, not only to strangers but to one
another, so meanly submissive when subjected, so insolent, or barbarous
and tyrannical, when superior, that I thought there was something in
them that shocked my very nature. Add to this that it is natural to an
Englishman to hate a coward, it all joined together to make the devil
and a Portuguese equally my aversion.
