The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed, as one
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him.  He had a piece of an
old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it; however, being
young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate got something
down his throat, and he began sensibly to revive; though by giving him,
some time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very
sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along upon the deck,
hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down in a fit of
apoplexy, and struggled for life.  Her limbs were distorted; one of her
hands was clasped round the frame of the chair, and she gripped it so
hard that we could not easily make her let it go; her other arm lay over
her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast against the frame of
the cabin table: in short, she lay just like one in the agonies of death,
and yet she was alive too.  The poor creature was not only starved with
hunger, and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us
afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying for
two or three days before, and whom she loved most tenderly.  We knew not
what to do with this poor girl; for when our surgeon, who was a man of
very great knowledge and experience, had, with great application,
recovered her as to life, he had her upon his hands still; for she was
little less than distracted for a considerable time after.
Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to consider that
visits at sea are not like a journey into the country, where sometimes
people stay a week or a fortnight at a place.  Our business was to
relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for them; and though
they were willing to steer the same course with us for some days, yet we
could carry no sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts.  However,
as their captain begged of us to help him to set up a main-topmast, and a
kind of a topmast to his jury fore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him
for three or four days; and then, having given him five barrels of beef,
a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas,
flour, and what other things we could spare; and taking three casks of
sugar, some rum, and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we
left them, taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the
youth and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well-bred,
modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of his mother,
and also at having lost his father but a few months before, at Barbadoes.
He begged of the surgeon to speak to me to take him out of the ship; for
he said the cruel fellows had murdered his mother: and indeed so they
had, that is to say, passively; for they might have spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, though it had been but just enough
to keep her alive; but hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice,
no right, and therefore is remorseless, and capable of no compassion.
