My next thoughts were, how I should defend and secure myself from
savages and wild beasts, if any such were in the island. At one time I
thought of digging a cave, at another I was for erecting a tent; and, at
length, I resolved to do both: The manner or form of which will not, I
hope, be unpleasing to describe.
When I considered the ground where I was, that it was moorish, and had
no fresh water near it, my resolutions were to search for a soil healthy
and well watered, where I might not only be sheltered from the sun's
scorching heat, but be more conveniently situated, as well to be secured
from wild men and beasts of prey, as more easily to discover any distant
sail, should it ever happen.
And, indeed, it was not long before I had my desire. I found a little
plain near a rising hill, the front towards which being as steep as a
house side, nothing could descend on me from the top. On the side of
this rock, was a little hollow place, resembling the entrance or door of
a cave. Just before this place; on the circle of the green, I resolved
my tent should stand. This plain did not much exceed a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, like a delightful green, before my door,
with a pleasing, though an irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea-side, lying on the N. W. side of the hill, so that it
was sheltered from the excessive heat of the sun. After this, I drew a
semi-circle, containing ten yards in a semi-diameter, and twenty yards
in the whole, driving down two rows; of strong stakes, not 6 inches from
each other. Then with the pieces of cable which I had cut on board, I
regularly laid them in a circle between the piles up to their tops,
which were more than five feet out of the earth, and after drove another
row of piles looking within side against them, between two or three feet
high, which made me conclude it a little impregnable castle against men
and beasts. And for my better security I would have no door, but entered
in and came out by the help of a ladder, which I also made.
[Illustration: Robinson Crusoe building his castle. _Dr. & Eng. by A.
Carse, Edin._]
Here was my fence and fortress, into which I carried all my riches,
ammunition, and stores. After which, working on the rock, what with dirt
and stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground two feet, but made a
little cellar to my mansion-house; and this cost me many days labour and
pains. One day in particular a shower of rain falling, thunder and
lighting ensued, which put me in terror lest my powder should take fire,
and not only hinder my necessary subsistence, by killing me food, but
even blow up me and my habitation. To prevent which, I fell to making
boxes and bags, in order to separate it, having by me near 150lb.
weight. And thus being established as king of the island, every day I
went out with my gun to see what I could kill that was fit to eat. I
soon perceived numbers of goats but very shy, yet having watched them
narrowly, and seeing I could better shoot off the rocks than when in the
low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-goat suckling a young kid; which
not thinking its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned; and when I took
the dead creature up, the young one followed me even to the inclosure. I
lifted the kid over the pales, and would willingly have kept it alive;
but finding it could not be brought to eat, I was forced to slay it also
for my subsistence.
