Here they can persecute Dissenters, without desiring they should
Conform, conform to the Church they would overthrow; Pray for the
Prince they dare not Name, and Name the Prince they do not pray for.
By the help of these Glasses strange Insights are made, into the vast
mysterious dark World of State Policy; but that which is yet more
strange, and requires vast Volumes to descend to the Particulars of,
and huge Diagrams, Spheres, Charts, and a Thousand nice things to
display is, That in this vast Intelligent Discovery it is not only
made plain, that those things are so, but all the vast Contradictions
are made Rational, reconciled to Practice, and brought down to
Demonstration.
German Clock-Work, the perpetual Motions, the Prim Mobilies of Our
short-sighted World, are Trifles to these Nicer Disquisitions.
Here it would be plain and rational, why a Parliament-Man will spend
5000 l. to be Chosen, that cannot get a Groat Honestly by setting
there: It would be easily made out to be rational, why he that rails
most at a Court is soonest receiv'd into it: Here it would be very
plain, how great Estates are got in little Places, and Double in none
at all. 'Tis easy to be prov'd honest and faithful to Victual the
French Fleet out of English Stores, and let our own Navy want them; a
long Sight, or a large Lunar Perspective, will make all these things
not only plain in Fact, but Rational and Justifiable to all the World.
'Tis a strange thing to any body without doubt, that has not been in
that clear-sighted Region, to comprehend, That those we call
High-flyers in England are the only Friends to the Dissenters, and
have been the most Diligent and Faithful in their Interest, of any
People in the Nation; and yet so it is, Gentlemen, and they ought to
have the Thanks of the whole Body for it.
In this advanc'd Station, we see it plainly by Reflexion, That the
Dissenters, like a parcel of Knaves, have retained all the
High-Church-men in their Pay; they are certainly all in their
Pension-Roll: Indeed, I could not see the Money paid them there, it
was too remote; but I could plainly see the thing; all the deep Lines
of the Project are laid as true, they are so Tackt and Consolidated
together, that if any one will give themselves leave to consider,
they will be most effectually convinced, That the High-Church and the
Dissenters here, are all in a Caball, a meer Knot, a piece of
Clock-work; the Dissenters are the Dial-Plate, and the High-Church
the Movement, the Wheel within the Wheels, the Spring and the Screw
to bring all things to Motion, and make the Hand on the Dial-plate
point which way the Dissenters please.
For what else have been all the Shams they have put upon the
Governments, Kings, States, and People they have been concern'd with?
What Schemes have they laid on purpose to be broken? What vast
Contrivances, on purpose to be ridicul'd and expos'd? The Men are not
Fools, they had never V---d to Consolidate a B--- but that they were
willing to save the Dissenters, and put it into a posture, in which
they were sure it would miscarry. I defy all the Wise Men of the Moon
to show another good reason for it.
