We were now at a great loss; the natives were civil enough to us, and
came often to discourse with us; one time they brought one whom they
showed respect to as a king with them, and they set up a long pole
between them and us, with a great tassel of hair hanging, not on the
top, but something above the middle of it, adorned with little chains,
shells, bits of brass, and the like; and this, we understood afterwards,
was a token of amity and friendship; and they brought down to us
victuals in abundance, cattle, fowls, herbs, and roots; but we were in
the utmost confusion on our side; for we had nothing to buy with, or
exchange for; and as to giving us things for nothing they had no notion
of that again. As to our money, it was mere trash to them, they had no
value for it; so that we were in a fair way to be starved. Had we had
but some toys and trinkets, brass chains, baubles, glass beads, or, in
a word, the veriest trifles that a shipload of would not have been worth
the freight, we might have bought cattle and provisions enough for an
army, or to victual a fleet of men-of-war; but for gold or silver we
could get nothing.
Upon this we were in a strange consternation. I was but a young fellow,
but I was for falling upon them with our firearms, and taking all the
cattle from them, and send them to the devil to stop their hunger,
rather than be starved ourselves; but I did not consider that this might
have brought ten thousand of them down upon us the next day; and though
we might have killed a vast number of them, and perhaps have frighted
the rest, yet their own desperation, and our small number, would have
animated them so that, one time or other, they would have destroyed us
all.
In the middle of our consultation, one of our men who had been a kind
of a cutler, or worker in iron, started up and asked the carpenter if,
among all his tools, he could not help him to a file. "Yes," says the
carpenter, "I can, but it is a small one." "The smaller the better,"
says the other. Upon this he goes to work, and first by heating a piece
of an old broken chisel in the fire, and then with the help of his file,
he made himself several kinds of tools for his work. Then he takes three
or four pieces of eight, and beats them out with a hammer upon a stone,
till they were very broad and thin; then he cuts them out into the shape
of birds and beasts; he made little chains of them for bracelets and
necklaces, and turned them into so many devices of his own head, that it
is hardly to be expressed.
When he had for about a fortnight exercised his head and hands at this
work, we tried the effect of his ingenuity; and, having another meeting
with the natives, were surprised to see the folly of the poor people.
For a little bit of silver cut in the shape of a bird, we had two cows,
and, which was our loss, if it had been in brass, it had been still of
more value. For one of the bracelets made of chain-work, we had as much
provision of several sorts, as would fairly have been worth, in England,
fifteen or sixteen pounds; and so of all the rest. Thus, that which when
it was in coin was not worth sixpence to us, when thus converted
into toys and trifles, was worth a hundred times its real value, and
purchased for us anything we had occasion for.
