Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long time, yet despairing of a
sudden deliverance, or that both ammunition and provision might be spent
before such a thing happened, I coveted as much as I could; and so long
as the ship remained in that condition, I daily brought away one
necessary or other; particularly the rigging, sails, and cordage, some
twine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel of meal, 3 calks of
rum, &, what indeed was most welcome to me, a whole hogshead of bread.
The next time I went I cut the cables in pieces, carried off a hawser
whole, with a great deal of iron work, and made another raft with the
mizen and sprit-sail-yard; but this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy
burden I had upon it, and not being able so dextrously to guide it, as
the former, both my cargo and I were overturned. For my part, all the
damage I sustained was a wet skin; and, at low water, after much labour
in diving, I got most of the cables, and some pieces of iron.
Thirteen days I had now been in the island, and eleven times on board,
bringing away all that was possible, and, I believe, had the weather
been calm, I should have brought away the whole ship piece by piece. As
I was going the twelfth time, the wind began to rise; however, I
ventured at low water, and rummaging the cabin, in a locker I found
several razors, scissors, and some dozens of knives and forks; and in
another thirty-six pounds in pieces of eight, silver and gold. _Ah!
simple vanity_ said I _whom this world so much dotes on, where is now
thy virtue, thy excellency to me? You cannot procure me one thing
needful, nor remove me from this desolate island to a place of plenty.
One of these knives, so meanly esteemed, is to me more preferable than
all this heap. E'en therefore remain where thou art to sink in the deep
as unregarded, even as a creature whose life is not worth preserving._
Yet, after all this exclamation, I wrapt it up in a piece of canvas,
and began to think of making another raft, but I soon perceived the wind
began to arise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore, and the sky
overcast with clouds and darkness; so thinking a a raft to be in yaw, I
let myself into the water with what things I had about me, and it was
with much difficulty I got ashore, when soon after it blew a
fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my little tent, surrounded with
all my effects; but when I looked out in the morning no more ship was to
be seen. This much surprised me for the present; yet, when I considered
I had lost no time, abated no pains and had got every thing useful out
of her, I comforted myself in the best manner, and entirely submitted to
the will of Providence.
