Eden said decidedly that he couldn't take both of them. So at twelve
o'clock when she and Hedger got on the boat at Desbrosses street, Caesar
was lying on his pallet, with a bone.
Eden enjoyed the boat-ride. It was the first time she had been on the
water, and she felt as if she were embarking for France. The light warm
breeze and the plunge of the waves made her very wide awake, and she
liked crowds of any kind. They went to the balcony of a big, noisy
restaurant and had a shore dinner, with tall steins of beer. Hedger had
got a big advance from his advertising firm since he first lunched with
Miss Bower ten days ago, and he was ready for anything.
After dinner they went to the tent behind the bathing beach, where the
tops of two balloons bulged out over the canvas. A red-faced man in a
linen suit stood in front of the tent, shouting in a hoarse voice and
telling the people that if the crowd was good for five dollars more, a
beautiful young woman would risk her life for their entertainment. Four
little boys in dirty red uniforms ran about taking contributions in their
pillbox hats. One of the balloons was bobbing up and down in its tether
and people were shoving forward to get nearer the tent.
"Is it dangerous, as he pretends?" Eden asked.
"Molly says it's simple enough if nothing goes wrong with the balloon.
Then it would be all over, I suppose."
"Wouldn't you like to go up with her?"
"I? Of course not. I'm not fond of taking foolish risks."
Eden sniffed. "I shouldn't think sensible risks would be very much fun."
Hedger did not answer, for just then every one began to shove the other
way and shout, "Look out. There she goes!" and a band of six pieces
commenced playing furiously.
As the balloon rose from its tent enclosure, they saw a girl in green
tights standing in the basket, holding carelessly to one of the ropes
with one hand and with the other waving to the spectators. A long rope
trailed behind to keep the balloon from blowing out to sea.
As it soared, the figure in green tights in the basket diminished to a
mere spot, and the balloon itself, in the brilliant light, looked like a
big silver-grey bat, with its wings folded. When it began to sink, the
girl stepped through the hole in the basket to a trapeze that hung below,
and gracefully descended through the air, holding to the rod with both
hands, keeping her body taut and her feet close together. The crowd,
which had grown very large by this time, cheered vociferously. The men
took off their hats and waved, little boys shouted, and fat old women,
shining with the heat and a beer lunch, murmured admiring comments upon
the balloonist's figure. "Beautiful legs, she has!"
"That's so," Hedger whispered. "Not many girls would look well in that
position." Then, for some reason, he blushed a slow, dark, painful
crimson.
