The name of the Earl startled me, and caused all the indignant blood that
warmed my heart to rush into my cheeks; I had never seen him before; I
figured to myself a haughty, assuming youth, who would take me to task, if
he deigned to speak to me, with all the arrogance of superiority. My reply
was ready; a reproach I deemed calculated to sting his very heart. He came
up the while; and his appearance blew aside, with gentle western breath, my
cloudy wrath: a tall, slim, fair boy, with a physiognomy expressive of the
excess of sensibility and refinement stood before me; the morning sunbeams
tinged with gold his silken hair, and spread light and glory over his
beaming countenance. "How is this?" he cried. The men eagerly began their
defence; he put them aside, saying, "Two of you at once on a mere lad--
for shame!" He came up to me: "Verney," he cried, "Lionel Verney, do we
meet thus for the first time? We were born to be friends to each other; and
though ill fortune has divided us, will you not acknowledge the hereditary
bond of friendship which I trust will hereafter unite us?"
As he spoke, his earnest eyes, fixed on me, seemed to read my very soul: my
heart, my savage revengeful heart, felt the influence of sweet benignity
sink upon it; while his thrilling voice, like sweetest melody, awoke a mute
echo within me, stirring to its depths the life-blood in my frame. I
desired to reply, to acknowledge his goodness, accept his proffered
friendship; but words, fitting words, were not afforded to the rough
mountaineer; I would have held out my hand, but its guilty stain restrained
me. Adrian took pity on my faltering mien: "Come with me," he said, "I have
much to say to you; come home with me--you know who I am?"
"Yes," I exclaimed, "I do believe that I now know you, and that you will
pardon my mistakes--my crime."
Adrian smiled gently; and after giving his orders to the gamekeepers, he
came up to me; putting his arm in mine, we walked together to the mansion.
It was not his rank--after all that I have said, surely it will not be
suspected that it was Adrian's rank, that, from the first, subdued my heart
of hearts, and laid my entire spirit prostrate before him. Nor was it I
alone who felt thus intimately his perfections. His sensibility and
courtesy fascinated every one. His vivacity, intelligence, and active
spirit of benevolence, completed the conquest. Even at this early age, he
was deep read and imbued with the spirit of high philosophy. This spirit
gave a tone of irresistible persuasion to his intercourse with others, so
that he seemed like an inspired musician, who struck, with unerring skill,
the "lyre of mind," and produced thence divine harmony. In person, he
hardly appeared of this world; his slight frame was overinformed by the
soul that dwelt within; he was all mind; "Man but a rush against" his
breast, and it would have conquered his strength; but the might of his
smile would have tamed an hungry lion, or caused a legion of armed men to
lay their weapons at his feet.
