Here, KING ALFRED, while the Danes sought him far and near, was left
alone one day, by the cowherd's wife, to watch some cakes which she put
to bake upon the hearth.  But, being at work upon his bow and arrows,
with which he hoped to punish the false Danes when a brighter time should
come, and thinking deeply of his poor unhappy subjects whom the Danes
chased through the land, his noble mind forgot the cakes, and they were
burnt.  'What!' said the cowherd's wife, who scolded him well when she
came back, and little thought she was scolding the King, 'you will be
ready enough to eat them by-and-by, and yet you cannot watch them, idle
dog?'
At length, the Devonshire men made head against a new host of Danes who
landed on their coast; killed their chief, and captured their flag; on
which was represented the likeness of a Raven--a very fit bird for a
thievish army like that, I think.  The loss of their standard troubled
the Danes greatly, for they believed it to be enchanted--woven by the
three daughters of one father in a single afternoon--and they had a story
among themselves that when they were victorious in battle, the Raven
stretched his wings and seemed to fly; and that when they were defeated,
he would droop.  He had good reason to droop, now, if he could have done
anything half so sensible; for, KING ALFRED joined the Devonshire men;
made a camp with them on a piece of firm ground in the midst of a bog in
Somersetshire; and prepared for a great attempt for vengeance on the
Danes, and the deliverance of his oppressed people.
But, first, as it was important to know how numerous those pestilent
Danes were, and how they were fortified, KING ALFRED, being a good
musician, disguised himself as a glee-man or minstrel, and went, with his
harp, to the Danish camp.  He played and sang in the very tent of GUTHRUM
the Danish leader, and entertained the Danes as they caroused.  While he
seemed to think of nothing but his music, he was watchful of their tents,
their arms, their discipline, everything that he desired to know.  And
right soon did this great king entertain them to a different tune; for,
summoning all his true followers to meet him at an appointed place, where
they received him with joyful shouts and tears, as the monarch whom many
of them had given up for lost or dead, he put himself at their head,
marched on the Danish camp, defeated the Danes with great slaughter, and
besieged them for fourteen days to prevent their escape.  But, being as
merciful as he was good and brave, he then, instead of killing them,
proposed peace: on condition that they should altogether depart from that
Western part of England, and settle in the East; and that GUTHRUM should
become a Christian, in remembrance of the Divine religion which now
taught his conqueror, the noble ALFRED, to forgive the enemy who had so
often injured him.  This, GUTHRUM did.  At his baptism, KING ALFRED was
his godfather.  And GUTHRUM was an honourable chief who well deserved
that clemency; for, ever afterwards he was loyal and faithful to the
king.  The Danes under him were faithful too.  They plundered and burned
no more, but worked like honest men.  They ploughed, and sowed, and
reaped, and led good honest English lives.  And I hope the children of
those Danes played, many a time, with Saxon children in the sunny fields;
and that Danish young men fell in love with Saxon girls, and married
them; and that English travellers, benighted at the doors of Danish
cottages, often went in for shelter until morning; and that Danes and
Saxons sat by the red fire, friends, talking of KING ALFRED THE GREAT.
