On the day of the coronation of the handsome boy-king Edwy, it was
remarked by ODO, Archbishop of Canterbury (who was a Dane by birth), that
the King quietly left the coronation feast, while all the company were
there.  Odo, much displeased, sent his friend Dunstan to seek him.
Dunstan finding him in the company of his beautiful young wife ELGIVA,
and her mother ETHELGIVA, a good and virtuous lady, not only grossly
abused them, but dragged the young King back into the feasting-hall by
force.  Some, again, think Dunstan did this because the young King's fair
wife was his own cousin, and the monks objected to people marrying their
own cousins; but I believe he did it, because he was an imperious,
audacious, ill-conditioned priest, who, having loved a young lady himself
before he became a sour monk, hated all love now, and everything
belonging to it.
The young King was quite old enough to feel this insult.  Dunstan had
been Treasurer in the last reign, and he soon charged Dunstan with having
taken some of the last king's money.  The Glastonbury Abbot fled to
Belgium (very narrowly escaping some pursuers who were sent to put out
his eyes, as you will wish they had, when you read what follows), and his
abbey was given to priests who were married; whom he always, both before
and afterwards, opposed.  But he quickly conspired with his friend, Odo
the Dane, to set up the King's young brother, EDGAR, as his rival for the
throne; and, not content with this revenge, he caused the beautiful queen
Elgiva, though a lovely girl of only seventeen or eighteen, to be stolen
from one of the Royal Palaces, branded in the cheek with a red-hot iron,
and sold into slavery in Ireland.  But the Irish people pitied and
befriended her; and they said, 'Let us restore the girl-queen to the boy-
king, and make the young lovers happy!' and they cured her of her cruel
wound, and sent her home as beautiful as before.  But the villain
Dunstan, and that other villain, Odo, caused her to be waylaid at
Gloucester as she was joyfully hurrying to join her husband, and to be
hacked and hewn with swords, and to be barbarously maimed and lamed, and
left to die.  When Edwy the Fair (his people called him so, because he
was so young and handsome) heard of her dreadful fate, he died of a
broken heart; and so the pitiful story of the poor young wife and husband
ends!  Ah!  Better to be two cottagers in these better times, than king
and queen of England in those bad days, though never so fair!
Then came the boy-king, EDGAR, called the Peaceful, fifteen years old.
Dunstan, being still the real king, drove all married priests out of the
monasteries and abbeys, and replaced them by solitary monks like himself,
of the rigid order called the Benedictines.  He made himself Archbishop
of Canterbury, for his greater glory; and exercised such power over the
neighbouring British princes, and so collected them about the King, that
once, when the King held his court at Chester, and went on the river Dee
to visit the monastery of St. John, the eight oars of his boat were
pulled (as the people used to delight in relating in stories and songs)
by eight crowned kings, and steered by the King of England.  As Edgar was
very obedient to Dunstan and the monks, they took great pains to
represent him as the best of kings.  But he was really profligate,
debauched, and vicious.  He once forcibly carried off a young lady from
the convent at Wilton; and Dunstan, pretending to be very much shocked,
condemned him not to wear his crown upon his head for seven years--no
great punishment, I dare say, as it can hardly have been a more
comfortable ornament to wear, than a stewpan without a handle.  His
marriage with his second wife, ELFRIDA, is one of the worst events of his
reign.  Hearing of the beauty of this lady, he despatched his favourite
courtier, ATHELWOLD, to her father's castle in Devonshire, to see if she
were really as charming as fame reported.  Now, she was so exceedingly
beautiful that Athelwold fell in love with her himself, and married her;
but he told the King that she was only rich--not handsome.  The King,
suspecting the truth when they came home, resolved to pay the
newly-married couple a visit; and, suddenly, told Athelwold to prepare
for his immediate coming.  Athelwold, terrified, confessed to his young
wife what he had said and done, and implored her to disguise her beauty
by some ugly dress or silly manner, that he might be safe from the King's
anger.  She promised that she would; but she was a proud woman, who would
far rather have been a queen than the wife of a courtier.  She dressed
herself in her best dress, and adorned herself with her richest jewels;
and when the King came, presently, he discovered the cheat.  So, he
caused his false friend, Athelwold, to be murdered in a wood, and married
his widow, this bad Elfrida.  Six or seven years afterwards, he died; and
was buried, as if he had been all that the monks said he was, in the
abbey of Glastonbury, which he--or Dunstan for him--had much enriched.
