The success of this beginning, which led to the dancing-master's
continuing his teaching after his release, led the poor child to try
again. She watched and waited months for a seamstress. In the fullness
of time a milliner came in, sent there like all the rest for a debt
which she could not pay; and to her she went to ask a favor for
herself.
"I beg your pardon, ma'am," she said, looking timidly round the door of
the milliner, whom she found in tears and in bed: "but I was born here."
Everybody seemed to hear of her as soon as they arrived; for the
milliner sat up in bed, drying her eyes, and said, just as the
dancing-master had said:
"Oh! _you_ are the child, are you?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"I am sorry I haven't got anything for you," said the milliner, shaking
her head.
"It's not that, ma'am. If you please, I want to learn needlework."
"Why should you do that," returned the milliner, "with me before you? It
has not done me much good."
"Nothing--whatever it is--seems to have done anybody much good who comes
here," she returned in her simple way; "but I want to learn, just the
same."
"I am afraid you are so weak, you see," the milliner objected.
"I don't think I am weak, ma'am."
"And you are so very, very little, you see," the milliner objected.
"Yes, I am afraid I am very little indeed," returned the Child of the
Marshalsea; and so began to sob over that unfortunate smallness of
hers, which came so often in her way. The milliner--who was not unkind
or hardhearted, only badly in debt--was touched, took her in hand with
good-will, found her the most patient and earnest of pupils, and made
her a good workwoman.
In course of time, the Father of the Marshalsea gradually developed a
new trait of character. He was very greatly ashamed of having his two
daughters work for their living; and tried to make it appear that they
were only doing work for pleasure, not for pay. But at the same time he
would take money from any one who would give it to him, without any
sense of shame. With the same hand that had pocketed a fellow-prisoner's
half-crown half an hour ago, he would wipe away the tears that streamed
over his cheeks if anything was spoken of his daughters' earning their
bread. So, over and above her other daily cares, the Child of the
Marshalsea had always upon her the care of keeping up the make-believe
that they were all idle beggars together.
The sister became a dancer. There was a ruined uncle in the family
group--ruined by his brother, the Father of the Marshalsea, and knowing
no more how, than his ruiner did, but taking the fact as something that
could not be helped. Naturally a retired and simple man, he had shown no
particular sense of being ruined, at the time when that calamity fell
upon him, further than he left off washing himself when the shock was
announced, and never took to washing his face and hands any more. He had
been a rather poor musician in his better days; and when he fell with
his brother, supported himself in a poor way by playing a clarionet as
dirty as himself in a small theatre band. It was the theatre in which
his niece became a dancer; he had been a fixture there a long time when
she took her poor station in it; and he accepted the task of serving as
her guardian, just as he would have accepted an illness, a legacy, a
feast, starvation--anything but soap.
