Pet had moved up to her (she had been the subject of remark among her
family and Mr Clennam, who were now the only other occupants of the
room), and was standing at her side.
'Are you'--she turned her eyes, and Pet faltered--'expecting any one to
meet you here, Miss Wade?'
'I? No.'
'Father is sending to the Poste Restante. Shall he have the pleasure of
directing the messenger to ask if there are any letters for you?'
'I thank him, but I know there can be none.'
'We are afraid,' said Pet, sitting down beside her, shyly and half
tenderly, 'that you will feel quite deserted when we are all gone.'
'Indeed!'
'Not,' said Pet, apologetically and embarrassed by her eyes, 'not, of
course, that we are any company to you, or that we have been able to be
so, or that we thought you wished it.'
'I have not intended to make it understood that I did wish it.'
'No. Of course. But--in short,' said Pet, timidly touching her hand as
it lay impassive on the sofa between them, 'will you not allow Father to
tender you any slight assistance or service? He will be very glad.'
'Very glad,' said Mr Meagles, coming forward with his wife and Clennam.
'Anything short of speaking the language, I shall be delighted to
undertake, I am sure.'
'I am obliged to you,' she returned, 'but my arrangements are made, and
I prefer to go my own way in my own manner.'
'_Do_ you?' said Mr Meagles to himself, as he surveyed her with a puzzled
look. 'Well! There's character in that, too.'
'I am not much used to the society of young ladies, and I am afraid I
may not show my appreciation of it as others might. A pleasant journey
to you. Good-bye!'
She would not have put out her hand, it seemed, but that Mr Meagles put
out his so straight before her that she could not pass it. She put hers
in it, and it lay there just as it had lain upon the couch.
'Good-bye!' said Mr Meagles. 'This is the last good-bye upon the list,
for Mother and I have just said it to Mr Clennam here, and he only waits
to say it to Pet. Good-bye! We may never meet again.'
'In our course through life we shall meet the people who are coming to
meet _us_, from many strange places and by many strange roads,' was the
composed reply; 'and what it is set to us to do to them, and what it is
set to them to do to us, will all be done.'
There was something in the manner of these words that jarred upon Pet's
ear. It implied that what was to be done was necessarily evil, and it
caused her to say in a whisper, 'O Father!' and to shrink childishly, in
her spoilt way, a little closer to him. This was not lost on the
speaker.
'Your pretty daughter,' she said, 'starts to think of such things. Yet,'
looking full upon her, 'you may be sure that there are men and women
already on their road, who have their business to do with _you_, and who
will do it. Of a certainty they will do it. They may be coming hundreds,
thousands, of miles over the sea there; they may be close at hand now;
they may be coming, for anything you know or anything you can do to
prevent it, from the vilest sweepings of this very town.'
