"When my father, sir," she said brightly, "tells you about my being
interested in other people, even though they know nothing about me--which,
by the bye, I told you myself--you ought to know how that comes about.
That's my father's doing."
"No, it isn't!" he protested.
"Don't you believe him, sir; yes, it is.  He tells me of everything he
sees down at his work.  You would be surprised what a quantity he gets
together for me every day.  He looks into the carriages, and tells me how
the ladies are dressed--so that I know all the fashions!  He looks into
the carriages, and tells me what pairs of lovers he sees, and what new-
married couples on their wedding trip--so that I know all about that!  He
collects chance newspapers and books--so that I have plenty to read!  He
tells me about the sick people who are travelling to try to get better--so
that I know all about them!  In short, as I began by saying, he tells me
everything he sees and makes out down at his work, and you can't think
what a quantity he does see and make out."
"As to collecting newspapers and books, my dear," said Lamps, "it's clear
I can have no merit in that, because they're not my perquisites.  You
see, sir, it's this way: A Guard, he'll say to me, 'Hallo, here you are,
Lamps.  I've saved this paper for your daughter.  How is she a-going on?'
A Head-Porter, he'll say to me, 'Here!  Catch hold, Lamps.  Here's a
couple of wollumes for your daughter.  Is she pretty much where she
were?'  And that's what makes it double welcome, you see.  If she had a
thousand pound in a box, they wouldn't trouble themselves about her; but
being what she is--that is, you understand," Lamps added, somewhat
hurriedly, "not having a thousand pound in a box--they take thought for
her.  And as concerning the young pairs, married and unmarried, it's only
natural I should bring home what little I can about _them_, seeing that
there's not a Couple of either sort in the neighbourhood that don't come
of their own accord to confide in Phoebe."
She raised her eyes triumphantly to Barbox Brothers as she said:
"Indeed, sir, that is true.  If I could have got up and gone to church, I
don't know how often I should have been a bridesmaid.  But, if I could
have done that, some girls in love might have been jealous of me, and, as
it is, no girl is jealous of me.  And my pillow would not have been half
as ready to put the piece of cake under, as I always find it," she added,
turning her face on it with a light sigh, and a smile at her father.
The arrival of a little girl, the biggest of the scholars, now led to an
understanding on the part of Barbox Brothers, that she was the domestic
of the cottage, and had come to take active measures in it, attended by a
pail that might have extinguished her, and a broom three times her
height.  He therefore rose to take his leave, and took it; saying that,
if Phoebe had no objection, he would come again.
