In his embarrassed way, he closed the door upon himself, and only saw, in
doing so, that she ecstatically took the present to her bosom and
caressed it.  The glimpse gladdened his heart, and yet saddened it; for
so might she, if her youth had flourished in its natural course, having
taken to her breast that day the slumbering music of her own child's
voice.
CHAPTER II--BARBOX BROTHERS AND CO.
With good-will and earnest purpose, the gentleman for Nowhere began, on
the very next day, his researches at the heads of the seven roads.  The
results of his researches, as he and Phoebe afterwards set them down in
fair writing, hold their due places in this veracious chronicle.  But
they occupied a much longer time in the getting together than they ever
will in the perusal.  And this is probably the case with most reading
matter, except when it is of that highly beneficial kind (for Posterity)
which is "thrown off in a few moments of leisure" by the superior poetic
geniuses who scorn to take prose pains.
It must be admitted, however, that Barbox by no means hurried himself.
His heart being in his work of good-nature, he revelled in it.  There was
the joy, too (it was a true joy to him), of sometimes sitting by,
listening to Phoebe as she picked out more and more discourse from her
musical instrument, and as her natural taste and ear refined daily upon
her first discoveries.  Besides being a pleasure, this was an occupation,
and in the course of weeks it consumed hours.  It resulted that his
dreaded birthday was close upon him before he had troubled himself any
more about it.
The matter was made more pressing by the unforeseen circumstance that the
councils held (at which Mr. Lamps, beaming most brilliantly, on a few
rare occasions assisted) respecting the road to be selected were, after
all, in nowise assisted by his investigations.  For, he had connected
this interest with this road, or that interest with the other, but could
deduce no reason from it for giving any road the preference.
Consequently, when the last council was holden, that part of the business
stood, in the end, exactly where it had stood in the beginning.
"But, sir," remarked Phoebe, "we have only six roads after all.  Is the
seventh road dumb?"
"The seventh road?  Oh!" said Barbox Brothers, rubbing his chin.  "That
is the road I took, you know, when I went to get your little present.
That is _its_ story.  Phoebe."
"Would you mind taking that road again, sir?" she asked with hesitation.
"Not in the least; it is a great high-road after all."
"I should like you to take it," returned Phoebe with a persuasive smile,
"for the love of that little present which must ever be so dear to me.  I
should like you to take it, because that road can never be again like any
other road to me.  I should like you to take it, in remembrance of your
having done me so much good: of your having made me so much happier!  If
you leave me by the road you travelled when you went to do me this great
kindness," sounding a faint chord as she spoke, "I shall feel, lying here
watching at my window, as if it must conduct you to a prosperous end, and
bring you back some day."
