'Well, sir, I hope I am a little in that line,' replied Squeers.
'I hope I am also,' rejoined the other. 'Could I say a few words with
you in the next box?'
'By all means,' rejoined Squeers with a grin. 'My dears, will you speak
to your new playfellow a minute or two? That is one of my boys, sir.
Belling his name is,--a Taunton boy that, sir.'
'Is he, indeed?' rejoined Mr. Snawley, looking at the poor little urchin
as if he were some extraordinary natural curiosity.
'He goes down with me tomorrow, sir,' said Squeers. 'That's his luggage
that he is a sitting upon now. Each boy is required to bring, sir, two
suits of clothes, six shirts, six pair of stockings, two nightcaps, two
pocket-handkerchiefs, two pair of shoes, two hats, and a razor.'
'A razor!' exclaimed Mr. Snawley, as they walked into the next box. 'What
for?'
'To shave with,' replied Squeers, in a slow and measured tone.
There was not much in these three words, but there must have been
something in the manner in which they were said, to attract attention;
for the schoolmaster and his companion looked steadily at each other for
a few seconds, and then exchanged a very meaning smile. Snawley was a
sleek, flat-nosed man, clad in sombre garments, and long black gaiters,
and bearing in his countenance an expression of much mortification
and sanctity; so, his smiling without any obvious reason was the more
remarkable.
'Up to what age do you keep boys at your school then?' he asked at
length.
'Just as long as their friends make the quarterly payments to my agent
in town, or until such time as they run away,' replied Squeers. 'Let
us understand each other; I see we may safely do so. What are these
boys;--natural children?'
'No,' rejoined Snawley, meeting the gaze of the schoolmaster's one eye.
'They ain't.'
'I thought they might be,' said Squeers, coolly. 'We have a good many of
them; that boy's one.'
'Him in the next box?' said Snawley.
Squeers nodded in the affirmative; his companion took another peep at
the little boy on the trunk, and, turning round again, looked as if he
were quite disappointed to see him so much like other boys, and said he
should hardly have thought it.
'He is,' cried Squeers. 'But about these boys of yours; you wanted to
speak to me?'
'Yes,' replied Snawley. 'The fact is, I am not their father, Mr. Squeers.
I'm only their father-in-law.'
'Oh! Is that it?' said the schoolmaster. 'That explains it at once. I
was wondering what the devil you were going to send them to Yorkshire
for. Ha! ha! Oh, I understand now.'
'You see I have married the mother,' pursued Snawley; 'it's expensive
keeping boys at home, and as she has a little money in her own right, I
am afraid (women are so very foolish, Mr. Squeers) that she might be led
to squander it on them, which would be their ruin, you know.'
