“You will,” said Rose, after a pause, “take some money from me, which
may enable you to live without dishonesty—at all events until we meet
again?”
“Not a penny,” replied the girl, waving her hand.
“Do not close your heart against all my efforts to help you,” said
Rose, stepping gently forward. “I wish to serve you indeed.”
“You would serve me best, lady,” replied the girl, wringing her hands,
“if you could take my life at once; for I have felt more grief to think
of what I am to-night than I ever did before, and it would be something
not to die in the same hell in which I have lived. God bless you, sweet
lady, and send as much happiness on your head as I have brought shame
on mine!”
Thus speaking, and sobbing aloud, the unhappy creature turned away;
while Rose Maylie, overpowered by this extraordinary interview, which
bore more the semblance of a rapid dream than an actual occurrence,
sank into a chair, and endeavoured to collect her wandering thoughts.
CHAPTER XL.
CONTAINING FRESH DISCOVERIES, AND SHOWING THAT SURPRISES, LIKE
MISFORTUNES, SELDOM COME ALONE.
HER situation was indeed one of no common trial and difficulty, for
while she felt the most eager and burning desire to penetrate the
mystery in which Oliver’s history was enveloped, she could not but
hold sacred the confidence which the miserable woman with whom she had
just conversed had reposed in her, as a young and guileless girl. Her
words and manner had touched Rose Maylie’s heart, and mingled with her
love for her young charge, and scarcely less intense in its truth and
fervour, was her fond wish to win the outcast back to repentance and
hope.
They only proposed remaining in London three days, prior to departing
for some weeks to a distant part of the coast. It was now midnight of
the first day. What course of action could she determine upon which
could be adopted in eight-and-forty hours? or how could she postpone
the journey without exciting suspicion?
Mr. Losberne was with them, and would be for the next two days;
but Rose was too well acquainted with the excellent gentleman’s
impetuosity, and foresaw too clearly the wrath with which, in the
first explosion of his indignation, he would regard the instrument
of Oliver’s recapture, to trust him with the secret, when her
representations in the girl’s behalf could be seconded by no
experienced person. These were all reasons for the greatest caution and
most circumspect behaviour in communicating it to Mrs. Maylie, whose
first impulse would infallibly be to hold a conference with the worthy
doctor on the subject. As to resorting to any legal adviser, even if
she had known how to do so, it was scarcely to be thought of, for the
same reasons. Once the thought occurred to her of seeking assistance
from Harry; but this awakened the recollection of their last parting,
and it seemed unworthy of her to call him back, when—the tears rose to
her eyes as she pursued this train of reflection—he might have by this
time learnt to forget her, and to be happier away.
