“Wot a rum chap you are, Tom!” said Master Bates, highly amused by this
declaration.
“Not a bit of it,” replied Mr. Chitling: “am I, Fagin?”
“A very clever fellow, my dear,” said the Jew, patting him on the
shoulder, and winking to his other pupils.
“And Mr. Crackit _is_ a heavy swell, an’t he, Fagin?” asked Tom.
“No doubt at all of that, my dear,” replied the Jew.
“And it _is_ a creditable thing to have his acquaintance, an’t it,
Fagin?” pursued Tom.
“Very much so, indeed, my dear,” replied the Jew. “They’re only
jealous, Tom, because he won’t give it to them.”
“Ah!” cried Tom, triumphantly, “that’s where it is. He has cleaned me
out; but I can go and earn some more when I like,—can’t I, Fagin?”
“To be sure you can,” replied the Jew; “and the sooner you go, the
better, Tom; so make up your loss at once, and don’t lose any more
time. Dodger, Charley, it’s time you were on the lay:—come, it’s near
ten, and nothing done yet.”
In obedience to this hint, the boys, nodding to Nancy, took up their
hats and left the room; the Dodger and his vivacious friend indulging
as they went in many witticisms at the expense of Mr. Chitling, in
whose conduct, it is but justice to say, there was nothing very
conspicuous or peculiar, inasmuch as there are a great number of
spirited young bloods upon town who pay a much higher price than Mr.
Chitling for being seen in good society, and a great number of fine
gentlemen (composing the good society aforesaid) who establish their
reputation upon very much the same footing as flash Toby Crackit.
“Now,” said the Jew, when they had left the room, “I’ll go and get you
that cash, Nancy. This is only the key of a little cupboard where I
keep a few odd things the boys get, my dear. I never lock up my money,
for I’ve got none to lock up, my dear—ha! ha! ha!—none to lock. It’s
a poor trade, Nancy, and no thanks; but I’m fond of seeing the young
people about me, and I bear it all; I bear it all. Hush!” he said,
hastily concealing the key in his breast; “who’s that? Listen!”
The girl, who was sitting at the table with her arms folded, appeared
in no way interested in the arrival, or to care whether the person,
whoever he was, came or went, until the murmur of a man’s voice reached
her ears. The instant she caught the sound she tore off her bonnet and
shawl with the rapidity of lightning, and thrust them under the table.
The Jew turning round immediately afterwards, she muttered a complaint
of the heat in a tone of languor that contrasted very remarkably with
the extreme haste and violence of this action, which, however, had been
unobserved by Fagin, who had his back towards her at the time.
“Bah!” whispered the Jew, as though nettled by the interruption; “it’s
the man I expected before; he’s coming down stairs. Not a word about
the money while he’s here, Nance. He won’t stop long—not ten minutes,
my dear.”
