“No,” said Rose.
“He knows you,” replied the girl; “and knew you were here, for it was
by hearing him tell the place that I found you out.”
“I never heard the name,” said Rose.
“Then he goes by some other amongst us,” rejoined the girl, “which I
more than thought before. Some time ago, and soon after Oliver was
put into your house on the night of the robbery, I—suspecting this
man—listened to a conversation held between him and Fagin in the dark.
I found out from what I heard that Monks—the man I asked you about,
you know—”
“Yes,” said Rose, “I understand.”
“—That Monks,” pursued the girl, “had seen him accidentally with two
of our boys on the day we first lost him, and had known him directly
to be the same child that he was watching for, though I couldn’t make
out why. A bargain was struck with Fagin, that if Oliver was got back
he should have a certain sum; and he was to have more for making him a
thief, which this Monks wanted for some purpose of his own.”
“For what purpose?” asked Rose.
“He caught sight of my shadow on the wall as I listened in the hope of
finding out,” said the girl; “and there are not many people besides me
that could have got out of their way in time to escape discovery. But I
did; and I saw him no more till last night.”
“And what occurred then?”
“I’ll tell you, lady. Last night he came again. Again they went up
stairs, and I, wrapping myself up so that my shadow should not betray
me, again listened at the door. The first words I heard Monks say were
these: ‘So the only proofs of the boy’s identity lie at the bottom
of the river, and the old hag that received them from the mother is
rotting in her coffin.’ They laughed, and talked of his success in
doing this; and Monks, talking on about the boy, and getting very wild,
said, that though he had got the young devil’s money safely now, he’d
rather have had it the other way; for, what a game it would have been
to have brought down the boast of the father’s will, by driving him
through every jail in town, and then hauling him up for some capital
felony, which Fagin could easily manage, after having made a good
profit of him besides.”
“What is all this!” said Rose.
“The truth, lady, though it comes from my lips,” replied the girl.
“Then he said with oaths common enough in my ears, but strangers to
yours, that if he could gratify his hatred by taking the boy’s life
without bringing his own neck in danger, he would; but, as he couldn’t,
he’d be upon the watch to meet him at every turn in life and if he took
advantage of his birth and history, he might harm him yet. ‘In short,
Fagin,’ he says, ‘Jew as you are, you never laid such snares as I’ll
contrive for my young brother, Oliver.’”
