“You may depend upon me, young man,” answered Mr. Bumble, bowing
himself gradually towards the ladder with excessive politeness. “On
every body’s account, young man; on my own, you know, Mr. Monks.”
“I am glad for your sake to hear it,” remarked Monks. “Light your
lantern, and get away from here as fast as you can.”
It was fortunate that the conversation terminated at this point, or
Mr. Bumble, who had bowed himself to within six inches of the ladder,
would infallibly have pitched headlong into the room below. He lighted
his lantern from that which Monks had detached from the rope, and now
carried in his hand, and, making no effort to prolong the discourse,
descended in silence, followed by his wife. Monks brought up the rear,
after pausing on the steps to satisfy himself that there were no other
sounds to be heard than the beating of the rain without, and the
rushing of the water.
They traversed the lower room slowly, and with caution, for Monks
started at every shadow, and Mr. Bumble, holding his lantern a foot
above the ground, walked not only with remarkable care, but with
a marvellously light step for a gentleman of his figure: looking
nervously about him for hidden trap-doors. The gate at which they
had entered was softly unfastened and opened by Monks, and, merely
exchanging a nod with their mysterious acquaintance, the married couple
emerged into the wet and darkness outside.
They were no sooner gone, than Monks, who appeared to entertain an
invincible repugnance to being left alone, called to a boy who had been
hidden somewhere below, and bidding him go first, and bear the light,
returned to the chamber he had just quitted.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
INTRODUCES SOME RESPECTABLE CHARACTERS WITH WHOM THE READER IS ALREADY
ACQUAINTED, AND SHOWS HOW MONKS AND THE JEW LAID THEIR WORTHY HEADS
TOGETHER.
IT was about two hours earlier on the evening following that upon which
the three worthies mentioned in the last chapter disposed of their
little matter of business as therein narrated, when Mr. William Sikes,
awakening from a nap, drowsily growled forth an inquiry what time of
night it was.
The room in which Mr. Sikes propounded this question was not one of
those he had tenanted previous to the Chertsey expedition, although
it was in the same quarter of the town, and was situated at no
great distance from his former lodgings. It was not in appearance
so desirable a habitation as his old quarters, being a mean and
badly-furnished apartment of very limited size, lighted only by
one small window in the shelving roof, and abutting upon a close
and dirty lane. Nor were there wanting other indications of the
good gentleman’s having gone down in the world of late; for a great
scarcity of furniture, and total absence of comfort, together with the
disappearance of all such small moveables as spare clothes and linen,
bespoke a state of extreme poverty, while the meager and attenuated
condition of Mr. Sikes himself would have fully confirmed these
symptoms if they had stood in need of corroboration.
