Many of the shops were already closing in the back lanes and avenues
through which she tracked her way in making from Spitalfields
towards the West-End of London. The clock struck ten, increasing her
impatience. She tore along the narrow pavement, elbowing the passengers
from side to side and darting almost under the horses’ heads, crossed
crowded streets, where clusters of persons were eagerly watching their
opportunity to do the like.
“The woman is mad!” said the people, turning to look after her as she
rushed away.
When she reached the more wealthy quarter of the town, the streets
were comparatively deserted, and here her headlong progress seemed to
excite a greater curiosity in the stragglers whom she hurried past.
Some quickened their pace behind, as though to see whither she was
hastening at such an unusual rate; and a few made head upon her, and
looked back, surprised at her undiminished speed, but they fell off one
by one; and when she neared her place of destination she was alone.
It was a family hotel in a quiet but handsome street near Hyde Park.
As the brilliant light of the lamp which burnt before its door guided
her to the spot, the clock struck eleven. She had loitered for a few
paces as though irresolute, and making up her mind to advance; but the
sound determined her, and she stepped into the hall. The porter’s seat
was vacant. She looked round with an air of incertitude, and advanced
towards the stairs.
“Now, young woman,” said a smartly-dressed female, looking out from a
door behind her, “who do you want here?”
“A lady who is stopping in this house,” answered the girl.
“A lady!” was the reply, accompanied with a scornful look. “What lady,
pray?”
“Miss Maylie,” said Nancy.
The young woman, who had by this time noted her appearance, replied
only by a look of virtuous disdain, and summoned a man to answer her.
To him Nancy repeated her request.
“What name am I to say?” asked the waiter.
“It’s of no use saying any,” replied Nancy.
“Nor business?” said the man.
“No, nor that neither,” rejoined the girl. “I must see the lady.”
“Come,” said the man, pushing her towards the door, “none of this! Take
yourself off, will you?”
“I shall be carried out if I go!” said the girl violently, “and I can
make that a job that two of you won’t like to do. Isn’t there any body
here,” she said, looking round, “that will see a simple message carried
for a poor wretch like me?”
This appeal produced an effect on a good-tempered-faced man-cook, who
with some other of the servants was looking on, and who stepped forward
to interfere.
“Take it up for her, Joe, can’t you?” said this person.
“What’s the good?” replied the man. “You don’t suppose the young lady
will see such as her, do you?”
This allusion to Nancy’s doubtful character raised a vast quantity of
chaste wrath in the bosoms of four housemaids, who remarked with great
fervour that the creature was a disgrace to her sex, and strongly
advocated her being thrown ruthlessly into the kennel.
