'Read of it with teacher at the school,' said the boy.
'And Lazarus?'
'Yes, and him too. But don't you tell my father! We should have no peace
in our place, if that got touched upon. It's my sister's contriving.'
'You seem to have a good sister.'
'She ain't half bad,' said the boy; 'but if she knows her letters it's
the most she does--and them I learned her.'
The gloomy Eugene, with his hands in his pockets, had strolled in and
assisted at the latter part of the dialogue; when the boy spoke these
words slightingly of his sister, he took him roughly enough by the chin,
and turned up his face to look at it.
'Well, I'm sure, sir!' said the boy, resisting; 'I hope you'll know me
again.'
Eugene vouchsafed no answer; but made the proposal to Mortimer, 'I'll
go with you, if you like?' So, they all three went away together in the
vehicle that had brought the boy; the two friends (once boys together at
a public school) inside, smoking cigars; the messenger on the box beside
the driver.
'Let me see,' said Mortimer, as they went along; 'I have been, Eugene,
upon the honourable roll of solicitors of the High Court of Chancery,
and attorneys at Common Law, five years; and--except gratuitously taking
instructions, on an average once a fortnight, for the will of Lady
Tippins who has nothing to leave--I have had no scrap of business but
this romantic business.'
'And I,' said Eugene, 'have been "called" seven years, and have had no
business at all, and never shall have any. And if I had, I shouldn't
know how to do it.'
'I am far from being clear as to the last particular,' returned
Mortimer, with great composure, 'that I have much advantage over you.'
'I hate,' said Eugene, putting his legs up on the opposite seat, 'I hate
my profession.'
'Shall I incommode you, if I put mine up too?' returned Mortimer. 'Thank
you. I hate mine.'
'It was forced upon me,' said the gloomy Eugene, 'because it was
understood that we wanted a barrister in the family. We have got a
precious one.'
'It was forced upon me,' said Mortimer, 'because it was understood that
we wanted a solicitor in the family. And we have got a precious one.'
'There are four of us, with our names painted on a door-post in right of
one black hole called a set of chambers,' said Eugene; 'and each of us
has the fourth of a clerk--Cassim Baba, in the robber's cave--and Cassim
is the only respectable member of the party.'
'I am one by myself, one,' said Mortimer, 'high up an awful staircase
commanding a burial-ground, and I have a whole clerk to myself, and he
has nothing to do but look at the burial-ground, and what he will turn
out when arrived at maturity, I cannot conceive. Whether, in that shabby
rook's nest, he is always plotting wisdom, or plotting murder; whether
he will grow up, after so much solitary brooding, to enlighten his
fellow-creatures, or to poison them; is the only speck of interest that
presents itself to my professional view. Will you give me a light? Thank
you.'
