'The gentleman, father.'
The figure at the red fire turned, raised its ruffled head, and looked
like a bird of prey.
'You're Mortimer Lightwood Esquire; are you, sir?'
'Mortimer Lightwood is my name. What you found,' said Mortimer, glancing
rather shrinkingly towards the bunk; 'is it here?'
''Tain't not to say here, but it's close by. I do everything reg'lar.
I've giv' notice of the circumstarnce to the police, and the police have
took possession of it. No time ain't been lost, on any hand. The police
have put into print already, and here's what the print says of it.'
Taking up the bottle with the lamp in it, he held it near a paper on
the wall, with the police heading, BODY FOUND. The two friends read the
handbill as it stuck against the wall, and Gaffer read them as he held
the light.
'Only papers on the unfortunate man, I see,' said Lightwood, glancing
from the description of what was found, to the finder.
'Only papers.'
Here the girl arose with her work in her hand, and went out at the door.
'No money,' pursued Mortimer; 'but threepence in one of the
skirt-pockets.'
'Three. Penny. Pieces,' said Gaffer Hexam, in as many sentences.
'The trousers pockets empty, and turned inside out.'
Gaffer Hexam nodded. 'But that's common. Whether it's the wash of the
tide or no, I can't say. Now, here,' moving the light to another similar
placard, 'HIS pockets was found empty, and turned inside out. And here,'
moving the light to another, 'HER pocket was found empty, and turned
inside out. And so was this one's. And so was that one's. I can't read,
nor I don't want to it, for I know 'em by their places on the wall. This
one was a sailor, with two anchors and a flag and G. F. T. on his arm.
Look and see if he warn't.'
'Quite right.'
'This one was the young woman in grey boots, and her linen marked with a
cross. Look and see if she warn't.'
'Quite right.'
'This is him as had a nasty cut over the eye. This is them two young
sisters what tied themselves together with a handkecher. This the
drunken old chap, in a pair of list slippers and a nightcap, wot had
offered--it afterwards come out--to make a hole in the water for a
quartern of rum stood aforehand, and kept to his word for the first and
last time in his life. They pretty well papers the room, you see; but I
know 'em all. I'm scholar enough!'
He waved the light over the whole, as if to typify the light of his
scholarly intelligence, and then put it down on the table and stood
behind it looking intently at his visitors. He had the special
peculiarity of some birds of prey, that when he knitted his brow, his
ruffled crest stood highest.
'You did not find all these yourself; did you?' asked Eugene.
To which the bird of prey slowly rejoined, 'And what might YOUR name be,
now?'
