In addition to the loan of the monthly boxes (which are always painted
blue, with the name of the society in large white letters on the lid),
the society dispense occasional grants of beef-tea, and a composition of
warm beer, spice, eggs, and sugar, commonly known by the name of
'candle,' to its patients.  And here again the services of the honorary
members are called into requisition, and most cheerfully conceded.
Deputations of twos or threes are sent out to visit the patients, and on
these occasions there is such a tasting of candle and beef-tea, such a
stirring about of little messes in tiny saucepans on the hob, such a
dressing and undressing of infants, such a tying, and folding, and
pinning; such a nursing and warming of little legs and feet before the
fire, such a delightful confusion of talking and cooking, bustle,
importance, and officiousness, as never can be enjoyed in its full extent
but on similar occasions.
In rivalry of these two institutions, and as a last expiring effort to
acquire parochial popularity, the child's examination people determined,
the other day, on having a grand public examination of the pupils; and
the large school-room of the national seminary was, by and with the
consent of the parish authorities, devoted to the purpose.  Invitation
circulars were forwarded to all the principal parishioners, including, of
course, the heads of the other two societies, for whose especial behoof
and edification the display was intended; and a large audience was
confidently anticipated on the occasion.  The floor was carefully
scrubbed the day before, under the immediate superintendence of the three
Miss Browns; forms were placed across the room for the accommodation of
the visitors, specimens in writing were carefully selected, and as
carefully patched and touched up, until they astonished the children who
had written them, rather more than the company who read them; sums in
compound addition were rehearsed and re-rehearsed until all the children
had the totals by heart; and the preparations altogether were on the most
laborious and most comprehensive scale.  The morning arrived: the
children were yellow-soaped and flannelled, and towelled, till their
faces shone again; every pupil's hair was carefully combed into his or
her eyes, as the case might be; the girls were adorned with snow-white
tippets, and caps bound round the head by a single purple ribbon: the
necks of the elder boys were fixed into collars of startling dimensions.
The doors were thrown open, and the Misses Brown and Co. were discovered
in plain white muslin dresses, and caps of the same--the child's
examination uniform.  The room filled: the greetings of the company were
loud and cordial.  The distributionists trembled, for their popularity
was at stake.  The eldest boy fell forward, and delivered a propitiatory
address from behind his collar.  It was from the pen of Mr. Henry Brown;
the applause was universal, and the Johnson Parkers were aghast.  The
examination proceeded with success, and terminated in triumph.  The
child's examination society gained a momentary victory, and the Johnson
Parkers retreated in despair.
