'Well, sir, to make short of a long story, I was left in possession, and
in possession I remained; and though I was an ignorant man, and the
master of the house a clever one, I saw what he never did, but what he
would give worlds now (if he had 'em) to have seen in time.  I saw, sir,
that his wife was wasting away, beneath cares of which she never
complained, and griefs she never told.  I saw that she was dying before
his eyes; I knew that one exertion from him might have saved her, but he
never made it.  I don't blame him: I don't think he _could_ rouse
himself.  She had so long anticipated all his wishes, and acted for him,
that he was a lost man when left to himself.  I used to think when I
caught sight of her, in the clothes she used to wear, which looked shabby
even upon her, and would have been scarcely decent on any one else, that
if I was a gentleman it would wring my very heart to see the woman that
was a smart and merry girl when I courted her, so altered through her
love for me.  Bitter cold and damp weather it was, yet, though her dress
was thin, and her shoes none of the best, during the whole three days,
from morning to night, she was out of doors running about to try and
raise the money.  The money _was_ raised and the execution was paid out.
The whole family crowded into the room where I was, when the money
arrived.  The father was quite happy as the inconvenience was removed--I
dare say he didn't know how; the children looked merry and cheerful
again; the eldest girl was bustling about, making preparations for the
first comfortable meal they had had since the distress was put in; and
the mother looked pleased to see them all so.  But if ever I saw death in
a woman's face, I saw it in hers that night.
'I was right, sir,' continued Mr. Bung, hurriedly passing his coat-sleeve
over his face; 'the family grew more prosperous, and good fortune
arrived.  But it was too late.  Those children are motherless now, and
their father would give up all he has since gained--house, home, goods,
money: all that he has, or ever can have, to restore the wife he has
lost.'
CHAPTER VI--THE LADIES' SOCIETIES
Our Parish is very prolific in ladies' charitable institutions.  In
winter, when wet feet are common, and colds not scarce, we have the
ladies' soup distribution society, the ladies' coal distribution society,
and the ladies' blanket distribution society; in summer, when stone
fruits flourish and stomach aches prevail, we have the ladies'
dispensary, and the ladies' sick visitation committee; and all the year
round we have the ladies' child's examination society, the ladies' bible
and prayer-book circulation society, and the ladies' childbed-linen
monthly loan society.  The two latter are decidedly the most important;
whether they are productive of more benefit than the rest, it is not for
us to say, but we can take upon ourselves to affirm, with the utmost
solemnity, that they create a greater stir and more bustle, than all the
others put together.
