Again, designs upon the pavement.  Centre compartment, Mount Vesuvius
going it (in a circle), supported by four oval compartments, severally
representing a ship in heavy weather, a shoulder of mutton attended by
two cucumbers, a golden harvest with distant cottage of proprietor, and a
knife and fork after nature; above the centre compartment a bunch of
grapes, and over the whole a rainbow.  The whole, as it appeared to me,
exquisitely done.
The person in attendance on these works of art was in all respects,
shabbiness excepted, unlike the former personage.  His whole appearance
and manner denoted briskness.  Though threadbare, he expressed to the
crowd that poverty had not subdued his spirit, or tinged with any sense
of shame this honest effort to turn his talents to some account.  The
writing which formed a part of his composition was conceived in a
similarly cheerful tone.  It breathed the following sentiments: "The
writer is poor, but not despondent.  To a British 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
Public he Pounds s. d. appeals.  Honour to our brave Army!  And also 0 9
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 to our gallant Navy.  BRITONS STRIKE the A B C D E F G
writer in common chalks would be grateful for any suitable employment
HOME!  HURRAH!"  The whole of this writing appeared to me to be
exquisitely done.
But this man, in one respect like the last, though seemingly hard at it
with a great show of brown paper and rubbers, was only really fattening
the down-stroke of a letter here and there, or blowing the loose chalk
off the rainbow, or toning the outside edge of the shoulder of mutton.
Though he did this with the greatest confidence, he did it (as it struck
me) in so ignorant a manner, and so spoilt everything he touched, that
when he began upon the purple smoke from the chimney of the distant
cottage of the proprietor of the golden harvest (which smoke was
beautifully soft), I found myself saying aloud, without considering of
it:
"Let that alone, will you?"
"Halloa!" said the man next me in the crowd, jerking me roughly from him
with his elbow, "why didn't you send a telegram?  If we had known you was
coming, we'd have provided something better for you.  You understand the
man's work better than he does himself, don't you?  Have you made your
will?  You're too clever to live long."
"Don't be hard upon the gentleman, sir," said the person in attendance on
the works of art, with a twinkle in his eye as he looked at me; "he may
chance to be an artist himself.  If so, sir, he will have a
fellow-feeling with me, sir, when I"--he adapted his action to his words
as he went on, and gave a smart slap of his hands between each touch,
working himself all the time about and about the composition--"when I
lighten the bloom of my grapes--shade off the orange in my rainbow--dot
the i of my Britons--throw a yellow light into my cow-cum-_ber_--insinuate
another morsel of fat into my shoulder of mutton--dart another zigzag
flash of lightning at my ship in distress!"
