                                * * * * *
Dickens left Liverpool, on his voyage across the Atlantic, in the
“Britannia” steam-packet, Captain Hewett, on the 3rd of January, 1842.
At Boston, Hartford, and New York, he was received with ovations
(Washington Irving on one occasion presiding at a banquet held in his
honour), until he was obliged to decline any further appearance in
public.  During this first visit to America, he made three long and
eloquent speeches, which are all given in this volume _in extenso_.  In
each of these he referred in an earnest way to the great question of
International Copyright, urging upon his Transatlantic friends the
necessity of doing right and justice in this matter.  He returned to
England in the month of June, and a few weeks afterwards addressed the
following circular letter to all the principal English authors:—
                         “1, DEVONSHIRE TERRACE, York Gate, Regent’s Park,
                                                      “7_th_ _July_, 1842.
    “You may perhaps be aware that, during my stay in America, I lost no
    opportunity of endeavouring to awaken the public mind to a sense of
    the unjust and iniquitous state of the law in that country, in
    reference to the wholesale piracy of British works.  Having been
    successful in making the subject one of general discussion in the
    United States, I carried to Washington, for presentation to Congress
    by Mr. Clay, a petition from the whole body of American authors,
    earnestly praying for the enactment of an International Copyright
    Law.  It was signed by Mr. Washington Irving, Mr. Prescott, Mr.
    Cooper, and every man who has distinguished himself in the literature
    of America; and has since been referred to a Select Committee of the
    House of Representatives.  To counteract any effect which might be
    produced by that petition, a meeting was held in Boston—which, you
    will remember, is the seat and stronghold of Learning and Letters in
    the United States—at which a memorial against any change in the
    existing state of things in this respect was agreed to, with but one
    dissentient voice.  This document, which, incredible as it may appear
    to you, was actually forwarded to Congress and received, deliberately
    stated that if English authors were invested with any control over
    the re-publication of their own books, it would be no longer possible
    for American editors to alter and adapt them (as they do now) to the
    American taste!  This memorial was, without loss of time, replied to
    by Mr. Prescott, who commented, with the natural indignation of a
    gentleman, and a man of letters, upon its extraordinary dishonesty.
    I am satisfied that this brief mention of its tone and spirit is
    sufficient to impress you with the conviction that it becomes all
    those who are in any way connected with the literature of England, to
    take that high stand, to which the nature of their pursuits, and the
    extent of their sphere of usefulness, justly entitle them, to
    discourage the upholders of such doctrines by every means in their
    power, and to hold themselves aloof from the remotest participation
    in a system, from which the moral sense and honourable feeling of all
    just men must instinctively recoil.
