    “John Overs is, as is set forth in the title-page, a working man.  A
    man who earns his weekly wages (or who did when he was strong enough)
    by plying of the hammer, plane, and chisel.  He became known to me
    nearly six years ago, when he sent me some songs, appropriate to the
    different months of the year, with a letter, stating under what
    circumstances they had been composed, and in what manner he was
    occupied from morning until night.  I was just then relinquishing the
    conduct of a monthly periodical, {27} or I would gladly have
    published them.  As it was, I returned them to him, with a private
    expression of the interest I felt in such productions.  They were
    afterwards accepted, with much readiness and consideration, by Mr.
    Tait, of Edinburgh, and were printed in his Magazine.
    “Finding, after some further correspondence with my new friend, that
    his authorship had not ceased with his verses, but that he still
    occupied his leisure moments in writing, I took occasion to
    remonstrate with him seriously against his pursuing that course.  I
    told him, his persistence in his new calling made me uneasy; and I
    advised him to abandon it as strongly as I could.
    “In answer to this dissuasion of mine, he wrote me as manly and
    straightforward, but withal, as modest a letter, as ever I read in my
    life.  He explained to me how limited his ambition was: soaring no
    higher than the establishment of his wife in some light business, and
    the better education of his children.  He set before me the
    difference between his evening and holiday studies, such as they
    were; and the having no better resource than an ale-house or a
    skittle-ground.  He told me how every small addition to his stock of
    knowledge made his Sunday walks the pleasanter, the hedge-flowers
    sweeter, everything more full of interest and meaning to him.
                                  * * * * *
    “He is very ill; the faintest shadow of the man who came into my
    little study for the first time, half-a-dozen years ago, after the
    correspondence I have mentioned.  He has been very ill for a long
    period; his disease is a severe and wasting affection of the lungs,
    which has incapacitated him these many months for every kind of
    occupation.  ‘If I could only do a hard day’s work,’ he said to me
    the other day, ‘how happy I should be.’
    “Having these papers by him, amongst others, he bethought himself
    that, if he could get a bookseller to purchase them for publication
    in a volume, they would enable him to make some temporary provision
    for his sick wife, and very young family.  We talked the matter over
    together, and that it might be easier of accomplishment I promised
    him that I would write an introduction to his book.
    “I would to Heaven that I could do him better service!  I would to
    Heaven it were an introduction to a long, and vigorous, and useful
    life!  But Hope will not trim his lamp the less brightly for him and
    his, because of this impulse to their struggling fortunes, and trust
    me, reader, they deserve her light, and need it sorely.
