‘I’m sure I’d be thankful,’ protested the Chief, looking sideways at the
Uncommercial, ‘if I could be got into a place, or got abroad.  I’m sick
and tired of this precious Ouse, I am, with reason.’
So would be, and so was, Number Two.  So would be, and so was, Oakum
Head.  So would be, and so were, Skirmishers.
The Uncommercial took the liberty of hinting that he hardly thought it
probable that any lady or gentleman in want of a likely young domestic of
retiring manners, would be tempted into the engagement of either of the
two leading Refractories, on her own presentation of herself as per
sample.
‘It ain’t no good being nothink else here,’ said the Chief.
The Uncommercial thought it might be worth trying.
‘Oh no it ain’t,’ said the Chief.
‘Not a bit of good,’ said Number Two.
‘And I’m sure I’d be very thankful to be got into a place, or got
abroad,’ said the Chief.
‘And so should I,’ said Number Two.  ‘Truly thankful, I should.’
Oakum Head then rose, and announced as an entirely new idea, the mention
of which profound novelty might be naturally expected to startle her
unprepared hearers, that she would be very thankful to be got into a
place, or got abroad.  And, as if she had then said, ‘Chorus, ladies!’
all the Skirmishers struck up to the same purpose.  We left them,
thereupon, and began a long walk among the women who were simply old and
infirm; but whenever, in the course of this same walk, I looked out of
any high window that commanded the yard, I saw Oakum Head and all the
other Refractories looking out at their low window for me, and never
failing to catch me, the moment I showed my head.
In ten minutes I had ceased to believe in such fables of a golden time as
youth, the prime of life, or a hale old age.  In ten minutes, all the
lights of womankind seemed to have been blown out, and nothing in that
way to be left this vault to brag of, but the flickering and expiring
snuffs.
And what was very curious, was, that these dim old women had one company
notion which was the fashion of the place.  Every old woman who became
aware of a visitor and was not in bed hobbled over a form into her
accustomed seat, and became one of a line of dim old women confronting
another line of dim old women across a narrow table.  There was no
obligation whatever upon them to range themselves in this way; it was
their manner of ‘receiving.’  As a rule, they made no attempt to talk to
one another, or to look at the visitor, or to look at anything, but sat
silently working their mouths, like a sort of poor old Cows.  In some of
these wards, it was good to see a few green plants; in others, an
isolated Refractory acting as nurse, who did well enough in that
capacity, when separated from her compeers; every one of these wards, day
room, night room, or both combined, was scrupulously clean and fresh.  I
have seen as many such places as most travellers in my line, and I never
saw one such, better kept.
