We have been in great distress, really in distress, at the non-arrival
of the _Caledonia_. You may conceive what our joy was, when, while we
were dining out yesterday, H. arrived with the joyful intelligence of
her safety. The very news of her having really arrived seemed to
diminish the distance between ourselves and home, by one half at least.
And this morning (though we have not yet received our heap of
despatches, for which we are looking eagerly forward to this night's
mail)--this morning there reached us unexpectedly, through the
Government bag (Heaven knows how they came there!), two of our many and
long-looked-for letters, wherein was a circumstantial account of the
whole conduct and behaviour of our pets; with marvellous narrations of
Charley's precocity at a Twelfth Night juvenile party at Macready's; and
tremendous predictions of the governess, dimly suggesting his having got
out of pot-hooks and hangers, and darkly insinuating the possibility of
his writing us a letter before long; and many other workings of the same
prophetic spirit, in reference to him and his sisters, very gladdening
to their mother's heart, and not at all depressing to their father's.
There was, also, the doctor's report, which was a clean bill; and the
nurse's report, which was perfectly electrifying; showing as it did how
Master Walter had been weaned, and had cut a double tooth, and done many
other extraordinary things, quite worthy of his high descent. In short,
we were made very happy and grateful; and felt as if the prodigal father
and mother had got home again.
What do you think of this incendiary card being left at my door last
night? "General G. sends compliments to Mr. Dickens, and called with two
literary ladies. As the two L. L.'s are ambitious of the honour of a
personal introduction to Mr. D., General G. requests the honour of an
appointment for to-morrow." I draw a veil over my sufferings. They are
sacred. We shall be in Buffalo, please Heaven, on the 30th of April. If
I don't find a letter from you in the care of the postmaster at that
place, I'll never write to you from England.
But if I _do_ find one, my right hand shall forget its cunning, before I
forget to be your truthful and constant correspondent; not, dear Felton,
because I promised it, nor because I have a natural tendency to
correspond (which is far from being the case), nor because I am truly
grateful to you for, and have been made truly proud by, that
affectionate and elegant tribute which ---- sent me, but because you are
a man after my own heart, and I love you _well_. And for the love I bear
you, and the pleasure with which I shall always think of you, and the
glow I shall feel when I see your handwriting in my own home, I hereby
enter into a solemn league and covenant to write as many letters to you
as you write to me, at least. Amen.
