‘Father?’
‘Sitting here,’ said Trotty, in penitent explanation, ‘cramming, and
stuffing, and gorging myself; and you before me there, never so much as
breaking your precious fast, nor wanting to, when—’
‘But I have broken it, father,’ interposed his daughter, laughing, ‘all
to bits.  I have had my dinner.’
‘Nonsense,’ said Trotty.  ‘Two dinners in one day!  It an’t possible!
You might as well tell me that two New Year’s Days will come together, or
that I have had a gold head all my life, and never changed it.’
‘I have had my dinner, father, for all that,’ said Meg, coming nearer to
him.  ‘And if you’ll go on with yours, I’ll tell you how and where; and
how your dinner came to be brought; and—and something else besides.’
Toby still appeared incredulous; but she looked into his face with her
clear eyes, and laying her hand upon his shoulder, motioned him to go on
while the meat was hot.  So Trotty took up his knife and fork again, and
went to work.  But much more slowly than before, and shaking his head, as
if he were not at all pleased with himself.
‘I had my dinner, father,’ said Meg, after a little hesitation,
‘with—with Richard.  His dinner-time was early; and as he brought his
dinner with him when he came to see me, we—we had it together, father.’
Trotty took a little beer, and smacked his lips.  Then he said,
‘Oh!’—because she waited.
‘And Richard says, father—’ Meg resumed.  Then stopped.
‘What does Richard say, Meg?’ asked Toby.
‘Richard says, father—’  Another stoppage.
‘Richard’s a long time saying it,’ said Toby.
‘He says then, father,’ Meg continued, lifting up her eyes at last, and
speaking in a tremble, but quite plainly; ‘another year is nearly gone,
and where is the use of waiting on from year to year, when it is so
unlikely we shall ever be better off than we are now?  He says we are
poor now, father, and we shall be poor then, but we are young now, and
years will make us old before we know it.  He says that if we wait:
people in our condition: until we see our way quite clearly, the way will
be a narrow one indeed—the common way—the Grave, father.’
A bolder man than Trotty Veck must needs have drawn upon his boldness
largely, to deny it.  Trotty held his peace.
‘And how hard, father, to grow old, and die, and think we might have
cheered and helped each other!  How hard in all our lives to love each
other; and to grieve, apart, to see each other working, changing, growing
old and grey.  Even if I got the better of it, and forgot him (which I
never could), oh father dear, how hard to have a heart so full as mine is
now, and live to have it slowly drained out every drop, without the
recollection of one happy moment of a woman’s life, to stay behind and
comfort me, and make me better!’
