'There's nothing dishonest or wrong in a supper, I hope?' said Mrs
Jiniwin.
'Surely not,' returned the dwarf. 'Why should there be? Nor anything
unwholesome, either, unless there's lobster-salad or prawns, which I'm
told are not good for digestion.'
'And you wouldn't like your wife to be attacked with that, or anything
else that would make her uneasy would you?' said Mrs Jiniwin.
'Not for a score of worlds,' replied the dwarf with a grin. 'Not even
to have a score of mothers-in-law at the same time--and what a blessing
that would be!'
'My daughter's your wife, Mr Quilp, certainly,' said the old lady with
a giggle, meant for satirical and to imply that he needed to be
reminded of the fact; 'your wedded wife.'
'So she is, certainly. So she is,' observed the dwarf.
'And she has a right to do as she likes, I hope, Quilp,' said the
old lady trembling, partly with anger and partly with a secret fear of
her impish son-in-law.
'Hope she has!' he replied. 'Oh! Don't you know she has? Don't you know
she has, Mrs Jiniwin?
'I know she ought to have, Quilp, and would have, if she was of my way
of thinking.'
'Why an't you of your mother's way of thinking, my dear?' said the
dwarf, turing round and addressing his wife, 'why don't you always
imitate your mother, my dear? She's the ornament of her sex--your
father said so every day of his life. I am sure he did.'
'Her father was a blessed creetur, Quilp, and worthy twenty thousand of
some people,' said Mrs Jiniwin; 'twenty hundred million thousand.'
'I should like to have known him,' remarked the dwarf. 'I dare say he
was a blessed creature then; but I'm sure he is now. It was a happy
release. I believe he had suffered a long time?'
The old lady gave a gasp, but nothing came of it; Quilp resumed, with
the same malice in his eye and the same sarcastic politeness on his
tongue.
'You look ill, Mrs Jiniwin; I know you have been exciting yourself too
much--talking perhaps, for it is your weakness. Go to bed. Do go to
bed.'
'I shall go when I please, Quilp, and not before.'
'But please to do now. Do please to go now,' said the dwarf.
The old woman looked angrily at him, but retreated as he advanced, and
falling back before him, suffered him to shut the door upon her and
bolt her out among the guests, who were by this time crowding
downstairs. Being left along with his wife, who sat trembling in a
corner with her eyes fixed upon the ground, the little man planted
himself before her, and folding his arms looked steadily at her for a
long time without speaking.
'Mrs Quilp,' he said at last.
'Yes, Quilp,' she replead meekly.
Instead of pursuing the theme he had in his mind, Quilp folded his arms
again, and looked at her more sternly than before, while she averted
her eyes and kept them on the ground.
