'Why, man, it is not to be put inside the monument!'
'Durdles knows where it's to be put, Mr. Sapsea; no man better.  Ask 'ere
a man in Cloisterham whether Durdles knows his work.'
Mr. Sapsea rises, takes a key from a drawer, unlocks an iron safe let
into the wall, and takes from it another key.
'When Durdles puts a touch or a finish upon his work, no matter where,
inside or outside, Durdles likes to look at his work all round, and see
that his work is a-doing him credit,' Durdles explains, doggedly.
The key proffered him by the bereaved widower being a large one, he slips
his two-foot rule into a side-pocket of his flannel trousers made for it,
and deliberately opens his flannel coat, and opens the mouth of a large
breast-pocket within it before taking the key to place it in that
repository.
'Why, Durdles!' exclaims Jasper, looking on amused, 'you are undermined
with pockets!'
'And I carries weight in 'em too, Mr. Jasper.  Feel those!' producing two
other large keys.
'Hand me Mr. Sapsea's likewise.  Surely this is the heaviest of the
three.'
'You'll find 'em much of a muchness, I expect,' says Durdles.  'They all
belong to monuments.  They all open Durdles's work.  Durdles keeps the
keys of his work mostly.  Not that they're much used.'
'By the bye,' it comes into Jasper's mind to say, as he idly examines the
keys, 'I have been going to ask you, many a day, and have always
forgotten.  You know they sometimes call you Stony Durdles, don't you?'
'Cloisterham knows me as Durdles, Mr. Jasper.'
'I am aware of that, of course.  But the boys sometimes--'
'O! if you mind them young imps of boys--' Durdles gruffly interrupts.
'I don't mind them any more than you do.  But there was a discussion the
other day among the Choir, whether Stony stood for Tony;' clinking one
key against another.
('Take care of the wards, Mr. Jasper.')
'Or whether Stony stood for Stephen;' clinking with a change of keys.
('You can't make a pitch pipe of 'em, Mr. Jasper.')
'Or whether the name comes from your trade.  How stands the fact?'
Mr. Jasper weighs the three keys in his hand, lifts his head from his
idly stooping attitude over the fire, and delivers the keys to Durdles
with an ingenuous and friendly face.
But the stony one is a gruff one likewise, and that hazy state of his is
always an uncertain state, highly conscious of its dignity, and prone to
take offence.  He drops his two keys back into his pocket one by one, and
buttons them up; he takes his dinner-bundle from the chair-back on which
he hung it when he came in; he distributes the weight he carries, by
tying the third key up in it, as though he were an Ostrich, and liked to
dine off cold iron; and he gets out of the room, deigning no word of
answer.
Mr. Sapsea then proposes a hit at backgammon, which, seasoned with his
own improving conversation, and terminating in a supper of cold roast
beef and salad, beguiles the golden evening until pretty late.  Mr.
Sapsea's wisdom being, in its delivery to mortals, rather of the diffuse
than the epigrammatic order, is by no means expended even then; but his
visitor intimates that he will come back for more of the precious
commodity on future occasions, and Mr. Sapsea lets him off for the
present, to ponder on the instalment he carries away.
