'No; in nothing.'
After a pause, in which the whimsically wicked face has not been
unobservant of him, Rosa says:
'And this most sensible of creatures likes the idea of being carried off
to Egypt; does she, Eddy?'
'Yes.  She takes a sensible interest in triumphs of engineering skill:
especially when they are to change the whole condition of an undeveloped
country.'
'Lor!' says Rosa, shrugging her shoulders, with a little laugh of wonder.
'Do you object,' Edwin inquires, with a majestic turn of his eyes
downward upon the fairy figure: 'do you object, Rosa, to her feeling that
interest?'
'Object? my dear Eddy!  But really, doesn't she hate boilers and things?'
'I can answer for her not being so idiotic as to hate Boilers,' he
returns with angry emphasis; 'though I cannot answer for her views about
Things; really not understanding what Things are meant.'
'But don't she hate Arabs, and Turks, and Fellahs, and people?'
'Certainly not.'  Very firmly.
'At least she _must_ hate the Pyramids?  Come, Eddy?'
'Why should she be such a little--tall, I mean--goose, as to hate the
Pyramids, Rosa?'
'Ah! you should hear Miss Twinkleton,' often nodding her head, and much
enjoying the Lumps, 'bore about them, and then you wouldn't ask.
Tiresome old burying-grounds!  Isises, and Ibises, and Cheopses, and
Pharaohses; who cares about them?  And then there was Belzoni, or
somebody, dragged out by the legs, half-choked with bats and dust.  All
the girls say: Serve him right, and hope it hurt him, and wish he had
been quite choked.'
The two youthful figures, side by side, but not now arm-in-arm, wander
discontentedly about the old Close; and each sometimes stops and slowly
imprints a deeper footstep in the fallen leaves.
'Well!' says Edwin, after a lengthy silence.  'According to custom.  We
can't get on, Rosa.'
Rosa tosses her head, and says she don't want to get on.
'That's a pretty sentiment, Rosa, considering.'
'Considering what?'
'If I say what, you'll go wrong again.'
'_You'll_ go wrong, you mean, Eddy.  Don't be ungenerous.'
'Ungenerous!  I like that!'
'Then I _don't_ like that, and so I tell you plainly,' Rosa pouts.
'Now, Rosa, I put it to you.  Who disparaged my profession, my
destination--'
'You are not going to be buried in the Pyramids, I hope?' she interrupts,
arching her delicate eyebrows.  'You never said you were.  If you are,
why haven't you mentioned it to me?  I can't find out your plans by
instinct.'
'Now, Rosa, you know very well what I mean, my dear.'
'Well then, why did you begin with your detestable red-nosed giantesses?
And she would, she would, she would, she would, she WOULD powder it!'
cries Rosa, in a little burst of comical contradictory spleen.
'Somehow or other, I never can come right in these discussions,' says
Edwin, sighing and becoming resigned.
'How is it possible, sir, that you ever can come right when you're always
wrong?  And as to Belzoni, I suppose he's dead;--I'm sure I hope he
is--and how can his legs or his chokes concern you?'
