The Spectre, without stirring, and with its unwinking, cruel eyes still
fixed upon his face, went on:
“A dream, like hers, stole upon my own life.”
“It did,” said Redlaw.
“A love, as like hers,” pursued the Phantom, “as my inferior nature might
cherish, arose in my own heart.  I was too poor to bind its object to my
fortune then, by any thread of promise or entreaty.  I loved her far too
well, to seek to do it.  But, more than ever I had striven in my life, I
strove to climb!  Only an inch gained, brought me something nearer to the
height.  I toiled up!  In the late pauses of my labour at that time,—my
sister (sweet companion!) still sharing with me the expiring embers and
the cooling hearth,—when day was breaking, what pictures of the future
did I see!”
“I saw them, in the fire, but now,” he murmured.  “They come back to me
in music, in the wind, in the dead stillness of the night, in the
revolving years.”
“—Pictures of my own domestic life, in aftertime, with her who was the
inspiration of my toil.  Pictures of my sister, made the wife of my dear
friend, on equal terms—for he had some inheritance, we none—pictures of
our sobered age and mellowed happiness, and of the golden links,
extending back so far, that should bind us, and our children, in a
radiant garland,” said the Phantom.
“Pictures,” said the haunted man, “that were delusions.  Why is it my
doom to remember them too well!”
“Delusions,” echoed the Phantom in its changeless voice, and glaring on
him with its changeless eyes.  “For my friend (in whose breast my
confidence was locked as in my own), passing between me and the centre of
the system of my hopes and struggles, won her to himself, and shattered
my frail universe.  My sister, doubly dear, doubly devoted, doubly
cheerful in my home, lived on to see me famous, and my old ambition so
rewarded when its spring was broken, and then—”
“Then died,” he interposed.  “Died, gentle as ever; happy; and with no
concern but for her brother.  Peace!”
The Phantom watched him silently.
“Remembered!” said the haunted man, after a pause.  “Yes.  So well
remembered, that even now, when years have passed, and nothing is more
idle or more visionary to me than the boyish love so long outlived, I
think of it with sympathy, as if it were a younger brother’s or a son’s.
Sometimes I even wonder when her heart first inclined to him, and how it
had been affected towards me.—Not lightly, once, I think.—But that is
nothing.  Early unhappiness, a wound from a hand I loved and trusted, and
a loss that nothing can replace, outlive such fancies.”
“Thus,” said the Phantom, “I bear within me a Sorrow and a Wrong.  Thus I
prey upon myself.  Thus, memory is my curse; and, if I could forget my
sorrow and my wrong, I would!”
“Mocker!” said the Chemist, leaping up, and making, with a wrathful hand,
at the throat of his other self.  “Why have I always that taunt in my
ears?”
