Even this, his usual sentiment at meal-times, one of his innocent
delusions (for his appetite was always obstinate, and flatly
contradicted him), awoke no smile in the face of his little wife, who
stood among the parcels, pushing the cake-box slowly from her with her
foot, and never once looked, though her eyes were cast down too, upon
the dainty shoe she generally was so mindful of. Absorbed in thought,
she stood there, heedless alike of the tea and John (although he called
to her and rapped the table with his knife to startle her), until he
rose and touched her on the arm; when she looked at him for a moment,
and hurried to her place behind the tea-board, laughing at her
negligence. But not as she had laughed before. The manner and the music
were quite changed.
The Cricket, too, had stopped. Somehow, the room was not so cheerful as
it had been. Nothing like it.
"So, these are all the parcels, are they, John?" she said, breaking a
long silence, which the honest Carrier had devoted to the practical
illustration of one part of his favourite sentiment--certainly enjoying
what he ate, if it couldn't be admitted that he ate but little. "So
these are all the parcels, are they, John?"
"That's all," said John. "Why--no--I"--laying down his knife and fork,
and taking a long breath--"I declare--I've clean forgotten the old
gentleman!"
"The old gentleman?"
"In the cart," said John. "He was asleep among the straw, the last time
I saw him. I've very nearly remembered him, twice, since I came in; but
he went out of my head again. Halloa! Yahip there! Rouse up! That's my
hearty!"
John said these latter words outside the door, whither he had hurried
with the candle in his hand.
Miss Slowboy, conscious of some mysterious reference to The Old
Gentleman, and connecting, in her mystified imagination, certain
associations of a religious nature with the phrase, was so disturbed,
that hastily rising from the low chair by the fire to seek protection
near the skirt of her mistress, and coming into contact, as she crossed
the doorway, with an ancient Stranger, she instinctively made a charge
or butt at him with the only offensive instrument within her reach. This
instrument happening to be the baby, great commotion and alarm ensued,
which the sagacity of Boxer rather tended to increase; for that good
dog, more thoughtful than his master, had, it seemed, been watching the
old gentleman in his sleep, lest he should walk off with a few young
poplar-trees that were tied up behind the cart; and he still attended on
him very closely, worrying his gaiters, in fact, and making dead sets at
the buttons.
"You're such an undeniably good sleeper, sir," said John, when
tranquillity was restored (in the meantime the old gentleman had stood,
bareheaded and motionless, in the centre of the room), "that I have half
a mind to ask you where the other six are--only that would be a joke,
and I know I should spoil it. Very near, though," murmured the Carrier
with a chuckle; "very near!"
