'It's a fine day; but would you like me to carry an umbrella up?'
'Don't be foolish, sir.  You haven't got polished leather boots on,'
pouting, with one shoulder raised.
'Perhaps that might escape the notice of the girls, even if they did see
me,' remarks Edwin, looking down at his boots with a sudden distaste for
them.
'Nothing escapes their notice, sir.  And then I know what would happen.
Some of them would begin reflecting on me by saying (for _they_ are free)
that they never will on any account engage themselves to lovers without
polished leather boots.  Hark!  Miss Twinkleton.  I'll ask for leave.'
That discreet lady being indeed heard without, inquiring of nobody in a
blandly conversational tone as she advances: 'Eh?  Indeed!  Are you quite
sure you saw my mother-of-pearl button-holder on the work-table in my
room?' is at once solicited for walking leave, and graciously accords it.
And soon the young couple go out of the Nuns' House, taking all
precautions against the discovery of the so vitally defective boots of
Mr. Edwin Drood: precautions, let us hope, effective for the peace of
Mrs. Edwin Drood that is to be.
'Which way shall we take, Rosa?'
Rosa replies: 'I want to go to the Lumps-of-Delight shop.'
'To the--?'
'A Turkish sweetmeat, sir.  My gracious me, don't you understand
anything?  Call yourself an Engineer, and not know _that_?'
'Why, how should I know it, Rosa?'
'Because I am very fond of them.  But O! I forgot what we are to pretend.
No, you needn't know anything about them; never mind.'
So he is gloomily borne off to the Lumps-of-Delight shop, where Rosa
makes her purchase, and, after offering some to him (which he rather
indignantly declines), begins to partake of it with great zest:
previously taking off and rolling up a pair of little pink gloves, like
rose-leaves, and occasionally putting her little pink fingers to her rosy
lips, to cleanse them from the Dust of Delight that comes off the Lumps.
'Now, be a good-tempered Eddy, and pretend.  And so you are engaged?'
'And so I am engaged.'
'Is she nice?'
'Charming.'
'Tall?'
'Immensely tall!'  Rosa being short.
'Must be gawky, I should think,' is Rosa's quiet commentary.
'I beg your pardon; not at all,' contradiction rising in him.
'What is termed a fine woman; a splendid woman.'
'Big nose, no doubt,' is the quiet commentary again.
'Not a little one, certainly,' is the quick reply, (Rosa's being a little
one.)
'Long pale nose, with a red knob in the middle.  I know the sort of
nose,' says Rosa, with a satisfied nod, and tranquilly enjoying the
Lumps.
'You _don't_ know the sort of nose, Rosa,' with some warmth; 'because
it's nothing of the kind.'
'Not a pale nose, Eddy?'
'No.'  Determined not to assent.
'A red nose?  O! I don't like red noses.  However; to be sure she can
always powder it.'
'She would scorn to powder it,' says Edwin, becoming heated.
'Would she?  What a stupid thing she must be!  Is she stupid in
everything?'
