                                  Affectionately your faithful friend.
P.S.--I have looked over my journal, and have decided to produce my
American trip in two volumes. I have written about half the first since
I came home, and hope to be out in October. This is "exclusive news," to
be communicated to any friends to whom you may like to intrust it, my
dear F----.
[Sidenote: The same.]
           1, DEVONSHIRE TERRACE, YORK GATE, REGENT'S PARK,
                                        LONDON, _September 1st, 1842._
MY DEAR FELTON,
Of course that letter in the papers was as foul a forgery as ever felon
swung for. . . . I have not contradicted it publicly, nor shall I. When
I tilt at such wringings out of the dirtiest mortality, I shall be another
man--indeed, almost the creature they would make me.
I gave your message to Forster, who sends a despatch-box full of kind
remembrances in return. He is in a great state of delight with the first
volume of my American book (which I have just finished), and swears
loudly by it. It is _True_ and Honourable I know, and I shall hope to
send it you, complete, by the first steamer in November.
Your description of the porter and the carpet-bags prepares me for a
first-rate facetious novel, brimful of the richest humour, on which I
have no doubt you are engaged. What is it called? Sometimes I imagine
the title-page thus:
           OYSTERS
             IN
        EVERY STYLE
             OR
          OPENINGS
             OF
            LIFE
             BY
        YOUNG DANDO.
As to the man putting the luggage on his head, as a sort of sign, I
adopt it from this hour.
I date this from London, where I have come, as a good profligate,
graceless bachelor, for a day or two; leaving my wife and babbies at the
seaside. . . . Heavens! if you were but here at this minute! A piece of
salmon and a steak are cooking in the kitchen; it's a very wet day, and
I have had a fire lighted; the wine sparkles on a side table; the room
looks the more snug from being the only _un_dismantled one in the house;
plates are warming for Forster and Maclise, whose knock I am momentarily
expecting; that groom I told you of, who never comes into the house,
except when we are all out of town, is walking about in his
shirt-sleeves without the smallest consciousness of impropriety; a great
mound of proofs are waiting to be read aloud, after dinner. With what a
shout I would clap you down into the easiest chair, my genial Felton, if
you could but appear, and order you a pair of slippers instantly!
Since I have written this, the aforesaid groom--a very small man (as the
fashion is), with fiery red hair (as the fashion is _not_)--has looked
very hard at me and fluttered about me at the same time, like a giant
butterfly. After a pause, he says, in a Sam Wellerish kind of way: "I
vent to the club this mornin', sir. There vorn't no letters, sir." "Very
good, Topping." "How's missis, sir?" "Pretty well, Topping." "Glad to
hear it, sir. _My_ missis ain't wery well, sir." "No!" "No, sir, she's
a goin', sir, to have a hincrease wery soon, and it makes her rather
nervous, sir; and ven a young voman gets at all down at sich a time,
sir, she goes down wery deep, sir." To this sentiment I replied
affirmatively, and then he adds, as he stirs the fire (as if he were
thinking out loud): "Wot a mystery it is! Wot a go is natur'!" With
which scrap of philosophy, he gradually gets nearer to the door, and so
fades out of the room.
