'"P. C."' said the stranger--'queer set out--old fellow's likeness, and
"P. C."--What does "P. C." stand for--Peculiar Coat, eh?' Mr. Tupman,
with rising indignation and great importance, explained the mystic
device.
'Rather short in the waist, ain't it?' said the stranger, screwing
himself round to catch a glimpse in the glass of the waist buttons,
which were half-way up his back. 'Like a general postman's coat--queer
coats those--made by contract--no measuring--mysterious dispensations of
Providence--all the short men get long coats--all the long men short
ones.' Running on in this way, Mr. Tupman's new companion adjusted his
dress, or rather the dress of Mr. Winkle; and, accompanied by Mr.
Tupman, ascended the staircase leading to the ballroom.
'What names, sir?' said the man at the door. Mr. Tracy Tupman was
stepping forward to announce his own titles, when the stranger prevented
him.
'No names at all;' and then he whispered Mr. Tupman, 'names won't do--
not known--very good names in their way, but not great ones--capital
names for a small party, but won't make an impression in public
assemblies--incog. the thing--gentlemen from London--distinguished
foreigners--anything.' The door was thrown open, and Mr. Tracy Tupman
and the stranger entered the ballroom.
It was a long room, with crimson-covered benches, and wax candles in
glass chandeliers. The musicians were securely confined in an elevated
den, and quadrilles were being systematically got through by two or
three sets of dancers. Two card-tables were made up in the adjoining
card-room, and two pair of old ladies, and a corresponding number of
stout gentlemen, were executing whist therein.
The finale concluded, the dancers promenaded the room, and Mr. Tupman
and his companion stationed themselves in a corner to observe the
company.
'Charming women,' said Mr. Tupman.
'Wait a minute,' said the stranger, 'fun presently--nobs not come yet--
queer place--dockyard people of upper rank don't know dockyard people of
lower rank--dockyard people of lower rank don't know small gentry--small
gentry don't know tradespeople--commissioner don't know anybody.'
'Who's that little boy with the light hair and pink eyes, in a fancy
dress?'inquired Mr. Tupman.
'Hush, pray--pink eyes--fancy dress--little boy--nonsense--ensign 97th--
Honourable Wilmot Snipe--great family--Snipes--very.'
'Sir Thomas Clubber, Lady Clubber, and the Misses Clubber!' shouted the
man at the door in a stentorian voice. A great sensation was created
throughout the room by the entrance of a tall gentleman in a blue coat
and bright buttons, a large lady in blue satin, and two young ladies, on
a similar scale, in fashionably-made dresses of the same hue.
'Commissioner--head of the yard--great man--remarkably great man,'
whispered the stranger in Mr. Tupman's ear, as the charitable committee
ushered Sir Thomas Clubber and family to the top of the room. The
Honourable Wilmot Snipe, and other distinguished gentlemen crowded to
render homage to the Misses Clubber; and Sir Thomas Clubber stood bolt
upright, and looked majestically over his black kerchief at the
assembled company.
'Mr. Smithie, Mrs. Smithie, and the Misses Smithie,' was the next
announcement.
'What's Mr. Smithie?' inquired Mr. Tracy Tupman.
