Clemency Newcome in the mean time, having accomplished her mission and
lingered in the room until she had made herself a party to the news,
descended to the kitchen, where her coadjutor, Mr. Britain, was regaling
after supper, surrounded by such a plentiful collection of bright
pot-lids, well-scoured saucepans, burnished dinner-covers, gleaming
kettles, and other tokens of her industrious habits, arranged upon the
walls and shelves, that he sat as in the centre of a hall of mirrors.
The majority did not give forth very flattering portraits of him,
certainly; nor were they by any means unanimous in their reflections; as
some made him very long-faced, others very broad-faced, some tolerably
well-looking, others vastly ill-looking, according to their several
manners of reflecting: which were as various, in respect of one fact, as
those of so many kinds of men. But they all agreed that in the midst of
them sat, quite at his ease, an individual with a pipe in his mouth, and
a jug of beer at his elbow, who nodded condescendingly to Clemency, when
she stationed herself at the same table.
"Well, Clemmy," said Britain, "how are you by this time, and what's the
news?"
Clemency told him the news, which he received very graciously. A
gracious change had come over Benjamin from head to foot. He was much
broader, much redder, much more cheerful, and much jollier in all
respects. It seemed as if his face had been tied up in a knot before,
and was now untwisted and smoothed out.
"There'll be another job for Snitchey and Craggs, I suppose," he
observed, puffing slowly at his pipe. "More witnessing for you and me,
perhaps, Clemmy!"
"Lor!" replied his fair companion, with her favorite twist of her
favorite joints. "I wish it was me, Britain."
"Wish what was you?"
"A going to be married," said Clemency.
Benjamin took his pipe out of his mouth and laughed heartily. "Yes!
you're a likely subject for that!" he said. "Poor Clem!" Clemency for
her part laughed as heartily as he, and seemed as much amused by the
idea. "Yes," she assented, "I'm a likely subject for that; an't I?"
"_You_'ll never be married, you know," said Mr. Britain, resuming his
pipe.
"Don't you think I ever shall though?" said Clemency, in perfect good
faith.
Mr. Britain shook his head. "Not a chance of it!"
"Only think!" said Clemency. "Well!--I suppose you mean to, Britain,
one of these days; don't you?"
A question so abrupt, upon a subject so momentous, required
consideration. After blowing out a great cloud of smoke, and looking
at it with his head now on this side and now on that, as if it were
actually the question, and he were surveying it in various aspects,
Mr. Britain replied that he wasn't altogether clear about it,
but--ye-es--he thought he might come to that at last.
"I wish her joy, whoever she may be!" cried Clemency.
"Oh she'll have that," said Benjamin; "safe enough."
"But she wouldn't have led quite such a joyful life as she will lead,
and wouldn't have had quite such a sociable sort of husband as she will
have," said Clemency, spreading herself half over the table, and staring
retrospectively at the candle, "if it hadn't been for--not that I went
to do it, for it was accidental, I am sure--if it hadn't been for me;
now would she, Britain?"
