We feel that in this place we lay ourselves open to inquiry whether
Mr. Winkle was whispering, during this brief conversation, to Arabella
Allen; and if so, what he said; and furthermore, whether Mr. Snodgrass
was conversing apart with Emily Wardle; and if so, what _he_ said. To
this, we reply, that whatever they might have said to the ladies, they
said nothing at all to Mr. Pickwick or Mr. Tupman for eight-and-twenty
miles, and that they sighed very often, refused ale and brandy,
and looked gloomy. If our observant lady readers can deduce any
satisfactory inferences from these facts, we beg them by all means to
do so.
CHAPTER III
[Illustration]
  _Which is all about the Law, and sundry great Authorities learned
    therein_
Scattered about, in various holes and corners of the Temple, are
certain dark and dirty chambers, in and out of which, all the morning
in Vacation, and half the evening too in Term times, there may be
seen constantly hurrying with bundles of papers under their arms, and
protruding from their pockets, an almost uninterrupted succession of
Lawyers' Clerks. There are several grades of Lawyers' Clerks. There
is the Articled Clerk, who has paid a premium, and is an attorney in
perspective, who runs a tailor's bill, receives invitations to parties,
knows a family in Gower Street, and another in Tavistock Square; who
goes out of town every Long Vacation to see his father, who keeps
live horses innumerable; and who is, in short, the very aristocrat
of clerks. There is the salaried clerk--out of door or in door, as
the case may be--who devotes the major part of his thirty shillings a
week to his personal pleasure and adornment, repairs half-price to the
Adelphi Theatre at least three times a week, dissipates majestically at
the cider cellars afterwards, and is a dirty caricature of the fashion
which expired six months ago. There is the middle-aged copying clerk,
with a large family, who is always shabby, and often drunk. And there
are the office lads in their first surtouts, who feel a befitting
contempt for boys at day-schools; club, as they go home at night, for
saveloys and porter; and think there's nothing like "life." There are
varieties of the genus, too numerous to recapitulate, but however
numerous they may be, they are all to be seen, at certain regulated
business hours, hurrying to and from the places we have just mentioned.
These sequestered nooks are the public offices of the legal profession,
where writs are issued, judgments signed, declarations filed, and
numerous other ingenious machines put in motion for the torture
and torment of His Majesty's liege subjects, and the comfort and
emolument of the practitioners of the law. They are, for the most part,
low-roofed, mouldy rooms, where innumerable rolls of parchment, which
have been perspiring in secret for the last century, send forth an
agreeable odour, which is mingled by day with the scent of the dry rot,
and by night with the various exhalations which arise from damp cloaks,
festering umbrellas, and the coarsest tallow candles.
