“Got none.”
“Where do you live?
“Live!  What’s that?”
The boy shook his hair from his eyes to look at him for a moment, and
then, twisting round his legs and wrestling with him, broke again into
his repetition of “You let me go, will you?  I want to find the woman.”
The Chemist led him to the door.  “This way,” he said, looking at him
still confusedly, but with repugnance and avoidance, growing out of his
coldness.  “I’ll take you to her.”
The sharp eyes in the child’s head, wandering round the room, lighted on
the table where the remnants of the dinner were.
“Give me some of that!” he said, covetously.
“Has she not fed you?”
“I shall be hungry again to-morrow, sha’n’t I?  Ain’t I hungry every
day?”
Finding himself released, he bounded at the table like some small animal
of prey, and hugging to his breast bread and meat, and his own rags, all
together, said:
“There!  Now take me to the woman!”
As the Chemist, with a new-born dislike to touch him, sternly motioned
him to follow, and was going out of the door, he trembled and stopped.
“The gift that I have given, you shall give again, go where you will!”
The Phantom’s words were blowing in the wind, and the wind blew chill
upon him.
“I’ll not go there, to-night,” he murmured faintly.  “I’ll go nowhere
to-night.  Boy! straight down this long-arched passage, and past the
great dark door into the yard,—you see the fire shining on the window
there.”
“The woman’s fire?” inquired the boy.
He nodded, and the naked feet had sprung away.  He came back with his
lamp, locked his door hastily, and sat down in his chair, covering his
face like one who was frightened at himself.
For now he was, indeed, alone.  Alone, alone.
CHAPTER II—The Gift Diffused
A small man sat in a small parlour, partitioned off from a small shop by
a small screen, pasted all over with small scraps of newspapers.  In
company with the small man, was almost any amount of small children you
may please to name—at least it seemed so; they made, in that very limited
sphere of action, such an imposing effect, in point of numbers.
Of these small fry, two had, by some strong machinery, been got into bed
in a corner, where they might have reposed snugly enough in the sleep of
innocence, but for a constitutional propensity to keep awake, and also to
scuffle in and out of bed.  The immediate occasion of these predatory
dashes at the waking world, was the construction of an oyster-shell wall
in a corner, by two other youths of tender age; on which fortification
the two in bed made harassing descents (like those accursed Picts and
Scots who beleaguer the early historical studies of most young Britons),
and then withdrew to their own territory.
In addition to the stir attendant on these inroads, and the retorts of
the invaded, who pursued hotly, and made lunges at the bed-clothes under
which the marauders took refuge, another little boy, in another little
bed, contributed his mite of confusion to the family stock, by casting
his boots upon the waters; in other words, by launching these and several
small objects, inoffensive in themselves, though of a hard substance
considered as missiles, at the disturbers of his repose,—who were not
slow to return these compliments.
