“Forbear!” exclaimed the Spectre in an awful voice.  “Lay a hand on Me,
and die!”
He stopped midway, as if its words had paralysed him, and stood looking
on it.  It had glided from him; it had its arm raised high in warning;
and a smile passed over its unearthly features, as it reared its dark
figure in triumph.
“If I could forget my sorrow and wrong, I would,” the Ghost repeated.
“If I could forget my sorrow and my wrong, I would!”
“Evil spirit of myself,” returned the haunted man, in a low, trembling
tone, “my life is darkened by that incessant whisper.”
“It is an echo,” said the Phantom.
“If it be an echo of my thoughts—as now, indeed, I know it is,” rejoined
the haunted man, “why should I, therefore, be tormented?  It is not a
selfish thought.  I suffer it to range beyond myself.  All men and women
have their sorrows,—most of them their wrongs; ingratitude, and sordid
jealousy, and interest, besetting all degrees of life.  Who would not
forget their sorrows and their wrongs?”
“Who would not, truly, and be happier and better for it?” said the
Phantom.
“These revolutions of years, which we commemorate,” proceeded Redlaw,
“what do _they_ recall!  Are there any minds in which they do not
re-awaken some sorrow, or some trouble?  What is the remembrance of the
old man who was here to-night?  A tissue of sorrow and trouble.”
“But common natures,” said the Phantom, with its evil smile upon its
glassy face, “unenlightened minds and ordinary spirits, do not feel or
reason on these things like men of higher cultivation and profounder
thought.”
“Tempter,” answered Redlaw, “whose hollow look and voice I dread more
than words can express, and from whom some dim foreshadowing of greater
fear is stealing over me while I speak, I hear again an echo of my own
mind.”
“Receive it as a proof that I am powerful,” returned the Ghost.  “Hear
what I offer!  Forget the sorrow, wrong, and trouble you have known!”
“Forget them!” he repeated.
“I have the power to cancel their remembrance—to leave but very faint,
confused traces of them, that will die out soon,” returned the Spectre.
“Say!  Is it done?”
“Stay!” cried the haunted man, arresting by a terrified gesture the
uplifted hand.  “I tremble with distrust and doubt of you; and the dim
fear you cast upon me deepens into a nameless horror I can hardly bear.—I
would not deprive myself of any kindly recollection, or any sympathy that
is good for me, or others.  What shall I lose, if I assent to this?  What
else will pass from my remembrance?”
“No knowledge; no result of study; nothing but the intertwisted chain of
feelings and associations, each in its turn dependent on, and nourished
by, the banished recollections.  Those will go.”
“Are they so many?” said the haunted man, reflecting in alarm.
“They have been wont to show themselves in the fire, in music, in the
wind, in the dead stillness of the night, in the revolving years,”
returned the Phantom scornfully.
