"Britain!" said the Doctor. "Run to the gate, and watch for the coach.
Time flies, Alfred!"
"Yes, Sir, yes," returned the young man, hurriedly. "Dear Grace! a
moment! Marion--so young and beautiful, so winning and so much admired,
dear to my heart as nothing else in life is--remember! I leave Marion to
you!"
"She has always been a sacred charge to me, Alfred. She is doubly so
now. I will be faithful to my trust, believe me."
"I do believe it, Grace. I know it well. Who could look upon your face,
and hear your earnest voice, and not know it! Ah, good Grace! If I had
your well-governed heart, and tranquil mind, how bravely I would leave
this place to-day!"
"Would you?" she answered, with a quiet smile.
"And yet, Grace--Sister, seems the natural word."
"Use it!" she said quickly, "I am glad to hear it, call me nothing
else."
"And yet, Sister, then," said Alfred, "Marion and I had better have your
true and stedfast qualities serving us here, and making us both happier
and better. I wouldn't carry them away, to sustain myself, if I could!"
"Coach upon the hill-top!" exclaimed Britain.
"Time flies, Alfred," said the Doctor.
Marion had stood apart, with her eyes fixed upon the ground; but this
warning being given, her young lover brought her tenderly to where her
sister stood, and gave her into her embrace.
"I have been telling Grace, dear Marion," he said, "that you are her
charge; my precious trust at parting. And when I come back and reclaim
you, dearest, and the bright prospect of our married life lies stretched
before us, it shall be one of our chief pleasures to consult how we can
make Grace happy; how we can anticipate her wishes; how we can show our
gratitude and love to her; how we can return her something of the debt
she will have heaped upon us."
The younger sister had one hand in his; the other rested on her sister's
neck. She looked into that sister's eyes, so calm, serene, and cheerful,
with a gaze in which affection, admiration, sorrow, wonder, almost
veneration, were blended. She looked into that sister's face, as if it
were the face of some bright angel. Calm, serene, and cheerful, it
looked back on her and on her lover.
"And when the time comes, as it must one day," said Alfred,--"I wonder
it has never come yet: but Grace knows best, for Grace is always
right,--when _she_ will want a friend to open her whole heart to, and
to be to her something of what she has been to us,--then, Marion, how
faithful we will prove, and what delight to us to know that she, our
dear good sister, loves and is loved again, as we would have her!"
Still the younger sister looked into her eyes, and turned not--even
towards him. And still those honest eyes looked back, so calm, serene,
and cheerful, on herself and on her lover.
