In reference to the article itself, it did, by repeating this statement,
hurt my feelings excessively; and is, in this respect, I still conceive,
most unworthy of its author. I am at a loss to divine who its author is.
I _know_ he read in some cut-throat American paper, this and other
monstrous statements, which I could at any time have converted into
sickening praise by the payment of some fifty dollars. I know that he is
perfectly aware that his statement in the _Review_ in corroboration of
these lies, would be disseminated through the whole of the United
States; and that my contradiction will never be heard of. And though I
care very little for the opinion of any person who will set the
statement of an American editor (almost invariably an atrocious
scoundrel) against my character and conduct, such as they may be; still,
my sense of justice does revolt from this most cavalier and careless
exhibition of me to a whole people, as a traveller under false
pretences, and a disappointed intriguer. The better the acquaintance
with America, the more defenceless and more inexcusable such conduct is.
For, I solemnly declare (and appeal to any man but the writer of this
paper, who has travelled in that country, for confirmation of my
statement) that the source from which he drew the "information" so
recklessly put forth again in England, is infinitely more obscene,
disgusting, and brutal than the very worst Sunday newspaper that has
ever been printed in Great Britain. Conceive _The Edinburgh Review_
quoting _The Satirist_, or _The Man about Town_, as an authority against
a man with one grain of honour, or feather-weight of reputation.
With regard to yourself, let me say again that I thank you with all
sincerity and heartiness, and fully acquit you of anything but kind and
generous intentions towards me. In proof of which, I do assure you that
I am even more desirous than before to write for the _Review_, and to
find some topic which would at once please me and you.
                                              Always faithfully yours.
[Sidenote: Professor Felton.]
                      1, DEVONSHIRE TERRACE, YORK GATE, REGENT'S PARK,
                                 LONDON, _March 2nd, 1843._
MY DEAR FELTON,
I don't know where to begin, but plunge headlong with a terrible splash
into this letter, on the chance of turning up somewhere.
Hurrah! Up like a cork again, with _The North American Review_ in my
hand. Like you, my dear ----, and I can say no more in praise of it,
though I go on to the end of the sheet. You cannot think how much notice
it has attracted here. Brougham called the other day, with the number
(thinking I might not have seen it), and I being out at the time, he
left a note, speaking of it, and of the writer, in terms that warmed my
heart. Lord Ashburton (one of whose people wrote a notice in the
_Edinburgh_ which they have since publicly contradicted) also wrote to
me about it in just the same strain. And many others have done the like.
