'Ah!' said the spokeswoman, 'I wish you'd give her a little of your
advice, Mrs Jiniwin'--Mrs Quilp had been a Miss Jiniwin it should be
observed--'nobody knows better than you, ma'am, what us women owe to
ourselves.'
'Owe indeed, ma'am!' replied Mrs Jiniwin. 'When my poor husband, her
dear father, was alive, if he had ever ventured a cross word to me, I'd
have--' The good old lady did not finish the sentence, but she twisted
off the head of a shrimp with a vindictiveness which seemed to imply
that the action was in some degree a substitute for words. In this
light it was clearly understood by the other party, who immediately
replied with great approbation, 'You quite enter into my feelings,
ma'am, and it's jist what I'd do myself.'
'But you have no call to do it,' said Mrs Jiniwin. 'Luckily for you,
you have no more occasion to do it than I had.'
'No woman need have, if she was true to herself,' rejoined the stout
lady.
'Do you hear that, Betsy?' said Mrs Jiniwin, in a warning voice.  'How
often have I said the same words to you, and almost gone down my knees
when I spoke 'em!'
Poor Mrs Quilp, who had looked in a state of helplessness from one face
of condolence to another, coloured, smiled, and shook her head
doubtfully. This was the signal for a general clamour, which beginning
in a low murmur gradually swelled into a great noise in which everybody
spoke at once, and all said that she being a young woman had no right
to set up her opinions against the experiences of those who knew so
much better; that it was very wrong of her not to take the advice of
people who had nothing at heart but her good; that it was next door to
being downright ungrateful to conduct herself in that manner; that if
she had no respect for herself she ought to have some for other women,
all of whom she compromised by her meekness; and that if she had no
respect for other women, the time would come when other women would
have no respect for her; and she would be very sorry for that, they
could tell her. Having dealt out these admonitions, the ladies fell to
a more powerful assault than they had yet made upon the  mixed tea, new
bread, fresh butter, shrimps, and watercresses, and said that their
vexation was so great to see her going on like that, that they could
hardly bring themselves to eat a single morsel.
It's all very fine to talk,' said Mrs Quilp with much simplicity, 'but
I know that if I was to die to-morrow, Quilp could marry anybody he
pleased--now that he could, I know!'
There was quite a scream of indignation at this idea. Marry whom he
pleased! They would like to see him dare to think of marrying any of
them; they would like to see the faintest approach to such a thing.
One lady (a widow) was quite certain she should stab him if he hinted
at it.
