"Good night!" said I.
"Come! Let us be the best friends in the world!" said the gentleman,
laughing. "Shake hands!"
My right hand was in my mother's left, so I gave him the other.
"Why that's the wrong hand, Davy!" laughed the gentleman.
My mother drew my right hand forward, but I was resolved, for my former
reason, not to give it him, and I did not. I gave him the other, and he
shook it heartily, and said I was a brave fellow, and went away.
At this minute I see him turn round in the garden, and give us a last
look with his ill-omened black eyes, before the door was shut.
Peggotty, who had not said a word or moved a finger, secured the
fastenings instantly, and we all went into the parlor. My mother,
contrary to her usual habit, instead of coming to the elbow-chair by the
fire, remained at the other end of the room, and sat singing to herself.
"--Hope you have had a pleasant evening, ma'am," said Peggotty, standing
as stiff as a barrel in the centre of the room, with a candlestick in
her hand.
"Much obliged to you, Peggotty," returned my mother, in a cheerful
voice, "I have had a _very_ pleasant evening."
"A stranger or so makes an agreeable change," suggested Peggotty.
"A very agreeable change indeed," returned my mother.
Peggotty continuing to stand motionless in the middle of the room, and
my mother resuming her singing, I fell asleep, though I was not so sound
asleep but that I could hear voices, without hearing what they said.
When I half awoke from this uncomfortable doze, I found Peggotty and my
mother both in tears, and both talking.
"Not such a one as this, Mr. Copperfield wouldn't have liked," said
Peggotty. "That I say, and that I swear!"
"Good Heavens!" cried my mother. "You'll drive me mad! Was ever any poor
girl so ill-used by her servants as I am! Why do I do myself the
injustice of calling myself a girl? Have I never been married,
Peggotty?"
"God knows you have, ma'am," returned Peggotty.
"Then how can you dare," said my mother--"you know I don't mean how can
you dare, Peggotty, but how can you have the heart--to make me so
uncomfortable and say such bitter things to me, when you are well aware
that I haven't, out of this place, a single friend to turn to!"
"The more's the reason," returned Peggotty, "for saying that it won't
do. No! That it won't do. No! No price could make it do. No!"--I thought
Peggotty would have thrown the candlestick away, she was so emphatic
with it.
"How can you be so aggravating," said my mother, shedding more tears
than before, "as to talk in such an unjust manner! How can you go on as
if it was all settled and arranged, Peggotty, when I tell you over and
over again, you cruel thing, that beyond the commonest civilities
nothing has passed! You talk of admiration. What am I to do? If people
are so silly as to indulge the sentiment, is it my fault? What am I to
do, I ask you? Would you wish me to shave my head and black my face, or
disfigure myself with a burn, or a scald, or something of that sort? I
dare say you would, Peggotty. I dare say you'd quite enjoy it."
