In the midst of all these objects, Caleb and his daughter sat at work.
The Blind Girl busy as a Doll's dressmaker; Caleb painting and glazing
the four-pair front of a desirable family mansion.
The care imprinted in the lines of Caleb's face, and his absorbed and
dreamy manner, which would have sat well on some alchemist or abstruse
student, were at first sight an odd contrast to his occupation and the
trivialities about him. But trivial things, invented and pursued for
bread, become very serious matters of fact: and, apart from this
consideration, I am not at all prepared to say, myself, that if Caleb
had been a Lord Chamberlain, or a Member of Parliament, or a lawyer, or
even a great speculator, he would have dealt in toys one whit less
whimsical, while I have a very great doubt whether they would have been
as harmless.
"So you were out in the rain last night, father, in your beautiful new
great-coat," said Caleb's daughter.
"In my beautiful new great-coat," answered Caleb, glancing towards a
clothes-line in the room, on which the sackcloth garment previously
described was carefully hung up to dry.
"How glad I am you bought it, father!"
"And of such a tailor too," said Caleb. "Quite a fashionable tailor.
It's too good for me."
The Blind Girl rested from her work, and laughed with delight. "Too
good, father! What can be too good for you?"
"I'm half ashamed to wear it, though," said Caleb, watching the effect
of what he said upon her brightening face, "upon my word! When I hear
the boys and people say behind me, 'Halloa! Here's a swell!' I don't
know which way to look. And when the beggar wouldn't go away last night;
and, when I said I was a very common man, said, 'No, your Honour! Bless
your Honour, don't say that!' I was quite ashamed. I really felt as if I
hadn't a right to wear it."
Happy Blind Girl! How merry she was in her exultation!
"I see you, father," she said, clasping her hands, "as plainly as if I
had the eyes I never want when you are with me. A blue coat----"
"Bright blue," said Caleb.
"Yes, yes! Bright blue!" exclaimed the girl, turning up her radiant
face; "the colour I can just remember in the blessed sky! You told me it
was blue before! A bright blue coat----"
"Made loose to the figure," suggested Caleb.
"Yes! loose to the figure!" cried the Blind Girl, laughing heartily;
"and in it, you, dear father, with your merry eye, your smiling face,
your free step, and your dark hair--looking so young and handsome!"
"Halloa! Halloa!" said Caleb. "I shall be vain presently!"
"_I_ think you are already," cried the Blind Girl, pointing at him in
her glee. "I know you, father! Ha, ha, ha! I've found you out, you see!"
How different the picture in her mind, from Caleb, as he sat observing
her! She had spoken of his free step. She was right in that. For years
and years he had never once crossed that threshold at his own slow pace,
but with a footfall counterfeited for her ear; and never had he, when
his heart was heaviest, forgotten the light tread that was to render
hers so cheerful and courageous!
