The living man, and the animated image of himself dead, might so have
looked, the one upon the other.  An awful survey, in a lonely and remote
part of an empty old pile of building, on a winter night, with the loud
wind going by upon its journey of mystery—whence or whither, no man
knowing since the world began—and the stars, in unimaginable millions,
glittering through it, from eternal space, where the world’s bulk is as a
grain, and its hoary age is infancy.
“Look upon me!” said the Spectre.  “I am he, neglected in my youth, and
miserably poor, who strove and suffered, and still strove and suffered,
until I hewed out knowledge from the mine where it was buried, and made
rugged steps thereof, for my worn feet to rest and rise on.”
“I _am_ that man,” returned the Chemist.
“No mother’s self-denying love,” pursued the Phantom, “no father’s
counsel, aided _me_.  A stranger came into my father’s place when I was
but a child, and I was easily an alien from my mother’s heart.  My
parents, at the best, were of that sort whose care soon ends, and whose
duty is soon done; who cast their offspring loose, early, as birds do
theirs; and, if they do well, claim the merit; and, if ill, the pity.”
It paused, and seemed to tempt and goad him with its look, and with the
manner of its speech, and with its smile.
“I am he,” pursued the Phantom, “who, in this struggle upward, found a
friend.  I made him—won him—bound him to me!  We worked together, side by
side.  All the love and confidence that in my earlier youth had had no
outlet, and found no expression, I bestowed on him.”
“Not all,” said Redlaw, hoarsely.
“No, not all,” returned the Phantom.  “I had a sister.”
The haunted man, with his head resting on his hands, replied “I had!”
The Phantom, with an evil smile, drew closer to the chair, and resting
its chin upon its folded hands, its folded hands upon the back, and
looking down into his face with searching eyes, that seemed instinct with
fire, went on:
“Such glimpses of the light of home as I had ever known, had streamed
from her.  How young she was, how fair, how loving!  I took her to the
first poor roof that I was master of, and made it rich.  She came into
the darkness of my life, and made it bright.—She is before me!”
“I saw her, in the fire, but now.  I hear her in music, in the wind, in
the dead stillness of the night,” returned the haunted man.
“_Did_ he love her?” said the Phantom, echoing his contemplative tone.
“I think he did, once.  I am sure he did.  Better had she loved him
less—less secretly, less dearly, from the shallower depths of a more
divided heart!”
“Let me forget it!” said the Chemist, with an angry motion of his hand.
“Let me blot it from my memory!”
