Trotty, who had long ago relapsed, and was very low-spirited, stepped
forward with a rueful face to take the letter.
‘With my compliments and thanks,’ said Sir Joseph.  ‘Stop!’
‘Stop!’ echoed Mr. Fish.
‘You have heard, perhaps,’ said Sir Joseph, oracularly, ‘certain remarks
into which I have been led respecting the solemn period of time at which
we have arrived, and the duty imposed upon us of settling our affairs,
and being prepared.  You have observed that I don’t shelter myself behind
my superior standing in society, but that Mr. Fish—that gentleman—has a
cheque-book at his elbow, and is in fact here, to enable me to turn over
a perfectly new leaf, and enter on the epoch before us with a clean
account.  Now, my friend, can you lay your hand upon your heart, and say,
that you also have made preparations for a New Year?’
‘I am afraid, sir,’ stammered Trotty, looking meekly at him, ‘that I am
a—a—little behind-hand with the world.’
‘Behind-hand with the world!’ repeated Sir Joseph Bowley, in a tone of
terrible distinctness.
‘I am afraid, sir,’ faltered Trotty, ‘that there’s a matter of ten or
twelve shillings owing to Mrs. Chickenstalker.’
‘To Mrs. Chickenstalker!’ repeated Sir Joseph, in the same tone as
before.
‘A shop, sir,’ exclaimed Toby, ‘in the general line.  Also a—a little
money on account of rent.  A very little, sir.  It oughtn’t to be owing,
I know, but we have been hard put to it, indeed!’
Sir Joseph looked at his lady, and at Mr. Fish, and at Trotty, one after
another, twice all round.  He then made a despondent gesture with both
hands at once, as if he gave the thing up altogether.
‘How a man, even among this improvident and impracticable race; an old
man; a man grown grey; can look a New Year in the face, with his affairs
in this condition; how he can lie down on his bed at night, and get up
again in the morning, and—There!’ he said, turning his back on Trotty.
‘Take the letter.  Take the letter!’
‘I heartily wish it was otherwise, sir,’ said Trotty, anxious to excuse
himself.  ‘We have been tried very hard.’
Sir Joseph still repeating ‘Take the letter, take the letter!’ and Mr.
Fish not only saying the same thing, but giving additional force to the
request by motioning the bearer to the door, he had nothing for it but to
make his bow and leave the house.  And in the street, poor Trotty pulled
his worn old hat down on his head, to hide the grief he felt at getting
no hold on the New Year, anywhere.
He didn’t even lift his hat to look up at the Bell tower when he came to
the old church on his return.  He halted there a moment, from habit: and
knew that it was growing dark, and that the steeple rose above him,
indistinct and faint, in the murky air.  He knew, too, that the Chimes
would ring immediately; and that they sounded to his fancy, at such a
time, like voices in the clouds.  But he only made the more haste to
deliver the Alderman’s letter, and get out of the way before they began;
for he dreaded to hear them tagging ‘Friends and Fathers, Friends and
Fathers,’ to the burden they had rung out last.
