Not to trouble you with a detailed account of all my travels in pursuit
of the ghost of Master B., which were longer and more wonderful than
those of Sinbad the Sailor, I will confine myself to one experience from
which you may judge of many.
I was marvellously changed.  I was myself, yet not myself.  I was
conscious of something within me, which has been the same all through my
life, and which I have always recognised under all its phases and
varieties as never altering, and yet I was not the I who had gone to bed
in Master B.’s room.  I had the smoothest of faces and the shortest of
legs, and I had taken another creature like myself, also with the
smoothest of faces and the shortest of legs, behind a door, and was
confiding to him a proposition of the most astounding nature.
This proposition was, that we should have a Seraglio.
The other creature assented warmly.  He had no notion of respectability,
neither had I.  It was the custom of the East, it was the way of the good
Caliph Haroun Alraschid (let me have the corrupted name again for once,
it is so scented with sweet memories!), the usage was highly laudable,
and most worthy of imitation.  “O, yes!  Let us,” said the other creature
with a jump, “have a Seraglio.”
It was not because we entertained the faintest doubts of the meritorious
character of the Oriental establishment we proposed to import, that we
perceived it must be kept a secret from Miss Griffin.  It was because we
knew Miss Griffin to be bereft of human sympathies, and incapable of
appreciating the greatness of the great Haroun.  Mystery impenetrably
shrouded from Miss Griffin then, let us entrust it to Miss Bule.
We were ten in Miss Griffin’s establishment by Hampstead Ponds; eight
ladies and two gentlemen.  Miss Bule, whom I judge to have attained the
ripe age of eight or nine, took the lead in society.  I opened the
subject to her in the course of the day, and proposed that she should
become the Favourite.
Miss Bule, after struggling with the diffidence so natural to, and
charming in, her adorable sex, expressed herself as flattered by the
idea, but wished to know how it was proposed to provide for Miss Pipson?
Miss Bule—who was understood to have vowed towards that young lady, a
friendship, halves, and no secrets, until death, on the Church Service
and Lessons complete in two volumes with case and lock—Miss Bule said she
could not, as the friend of Pipson, disguise from herself, or me, that
Pipson was not one of the common.
Now, Miss Pipson, having curly hair and blue eyes (which was my idea of
anything mortal and feminine that was called Fair), I promptly replied
that I regarded Miss Pipson in the light of a Fair Circassian.
“And what then?” Miss Bule pensively asked.
I replied that she must be inveigled by a Merchant, brought to me veiled,
and purchased as a slave.
