"No, it was time, high time," he went on hotly. "We have put it off too
long, and to my thinking humanity is the first consideration, humanity with
our inferiors, remembering that they, too, are men. Humanity will save
everything and bring out all that is...."
"He-he-he-he!" was heard from the direction of Semyon Ivanovitch.
"But why are you giving us such a talking to?" Stepan Nikiforovitch
protested at last, with an affable smile. "I must own, Ivan Ilyitch, I have
not been able to make out, so far, what you are maintaining. You advocate
humanity. That is love of your fellow-creatures, isn't it?"
"Yes, if you like. I...."
"Allow me! As far as I can see, that's not the only thing. Love of one's
fellow-creatures has always been fitting. The reform movement is not
confined to that. All sorts of questions have arisen relating to the
peasantry, the law courts, economics, government contracts, morals and ...
and ... and those questions are endless, and all together may give rise to
great upheavals, so to say. That is what we have been anxious about, and
not simply humanity...."
"Yes, the thing is a bit deeper than that," observed Semyon Ivanovitch.
"I quite understand, and allow me to observe, Semyon Ivanovitch, that I
can't agree to being inferior to you in depth of understanding," Ivan
Ilyitch observed sarcastically and with excessive sharpness. "However, I
will make so bold as to assert, Stepan Nikiforovitch, that you have not
understood me either...."
"No, I haven't."
"And yet I maintain and everywhere advance the idea that humanity and
nothing else with one's subordinates, from the official in one's department
down to the copying clerk, from the copying clerk down to the house serf,
from the servant down to the peasant--humanity, I say, may serve, so to
speak, as the corner-stone of the coming reforms and the reformation of
things in general. Why? Because. Take a syllogism. I am human, consequently
I am loved. I am loved, so confidence is felt in me. There is a feeling of
confidence, and so there is trust. There is trust, and so there is love ...
that is, no, I mean to say that if they trust me they will believe in the
reforms, they will understand, so to speak, the essential nature of them,
will, so to speak, embrace each other in a moral sense, and will settle the
whole business in a friendly way, fundamentally. What are you laughing at,
Semyon Ivanovitch? Can't you understand?"
Stepan Nikiforovitch raised his eyebrows without speaking; he was
surprised.
"I fancy I have drunk a little too much," said Semyon Ivanovitch
sarcastically, "and so I am a little slow of comprehension. Not quite all
my wits about me."
Ivan Ilyitch winced.
"We should break down," Stepan Nikiforovitch pronounced suddenly, after a
slight pause of hesitation.
"How do you mean we should break down?" asked Ivan Ilyitch, surprised at
Stepan Nikiforovitch's abrupt remark.
"Why, we should break under the strain." Stepan Nikiforovitch evidently did
not care to explain further.
