"Well, won't you let me take you along?"
"_Merci, bon voyage._"
Semyon Ivanovitch drove off, while Ivan Ilyitch set off on foot along the
wooden pavement, conscious of a rather acute irritation.
       *       *       *       *       *
"Yes, indeed I'll give it to you now, you rogue! I am going on foot on
purpose to make you feel it, to frighten you! He will come back and hear
that his master has gone off on foot ... the blackguard!"
Ivan Ilyitch had never abused any one like this, but he was greatly
angered, and besides, there was a buzzing in his head. He was not given to
drink, so five or six glasses soon affected him. But the night was
enchanting. There was a frost, but it was remarkably still and there was no
wind. There was a clear, starry sky. The full moon was bathing the earth in
soft silver light. It was so lovely that after walking some fifty paces
Ivan Ilyitch almost forgot his troubles. He felt particularly pleased.
People quickly change from one mood to another when they are a little
drunk. He was even pleased with the ugly little wooden houses of the
deserted street.
"It's really a capital thing that I am walking," he thought; "it's a lesson
to Trifon and a pleasure to me. I really ought to walk oftener. And I shall
soon pick up a sledge on the Great Prospect. It's a glorious night. What
little houses they all are! I suppose small fry live here, clerks,
tradesmen, perhaps.... That Stepan Nikiforovitch! What reactionaries they
all are, those old fogies! Fogies, yes, _c'est le mot_. He is a sensible
man, though; he has that _bon sens_, sober, practical understanding of
things. But they are old, old. There is a lack of ... what is it? There is
a lack of something.... 'We shall break down.' What did he mean by that? He
actually pondered when he said it. He didn't understand me a bit. And yet
how could he help understanding? It was more difficult not to understand it
than to understand it. The chief thing is that I am convinced, convinced in
my soul. Humanity ... the love of one's kind. Restore a man to himself,
revive his personal dignity, and then ... when the ground is prepared, get
to work. I believe that's clear? Yes! Allow me, your Excellency; take a
syllogism, for instance: we meet, for instance, a clerk, a poor,
downtrodden clerk. 'Well ... who are you?' Answer: 'A clerk.' Very good, a
clerk; further: 'What sort of clerk are you?' Answer: 'I am such and such a
clerk,' he says. 'Are you in the service?' 'I am.' 'Do you want to be
happy?' 'I do.' 'What do you need for happiness?' 'This and that.' 'Why?'
'Because....' and there the man understands me with a couple of words, the
man's mine, the man is caught, so to speak, in a net, and I can do what I
like with him, that is, for his good. Horrid man that Semyon Ivanovitch!
And what a nasty phiz he has!... 'Flog him in the police station,' he said
that on purpose. No, you are talking rubbish; you can flog, but I'm not
going to; I shall punish Trifon with words, I shall punish him with
reproaches, he will feel it. As for flogging, h'm! ... it is an open
question, h'm!... What about going to Emerance? Oh, damnation take it, the
cursed pavement!" he cried out, suddenly tripping up. "And this is the
capital. Enlightenment! One might break one's leg. H'm! I detest that
Semyon Ivanovitch; a most revolting phiz. He was chuckling at me just now
when I said they would embrace each other in a moral sense. Well, and they
will embrace each other, and what's that to do with you? I am not going to
embrace you; I'd rather embrace a peasant.... If I meet a peasant, I shall
talk to him. I was drunk, though, and perhaps did not express myself
properly. Possibly I am not expressing myself rightly now.... H'm! I shall
never touch wine again. In the evening you babble, and next morning you are
sorry for it. After all, I am walking quite steadily.... But they are all
scoundrels, anyhow!"
