"You must forgive me, of course... I really don't know what suddenly
came over me... it's silly."
The carelessness of his apology was almost equivalent to a fresh insult.
The outcry was greater than ever. Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch shrugged his
shoulders and went away. All this was very stupid, to say nothing of its
gross indecency--
A calculated and premeditated indecency as it seemed at first sight--and
therefore a premeditated and utterly brutal insult to our whole society.
So it was taken to be by every one. We began by promptly and unanimously
striking young Stavrogin's name off the list of club members. Then it
was decided to send an appeal in the name of the whole club to the
governor, begging him at once (without waiting for the case to be
formally tried in court) to use "the administrative power entrusted to
him" to restrain this dangerous ruffian, "this duelling bully from the
capital, and so protect the tranquillity of all the gentry of our town
from injurious encroachments." It was added with angry resentment that
"a law might be found to control even Mr. Stavrogin." This phrase was
prepared by way of a thrust at the governor on account of Varvara
Petrovna. They elaborated it with relish. As ill luck would have it,
the governor was not in the town at the time. He had gone to a little
distance to stand godfather to the child of a very charming lady,
recently left a widow in an interesting condition. But it was known that
he would soon be back. In the meanwhile they got up a regular ovation
for the respected and insulted gentleman; people embraced and kissed
him; the whole town called upon him. It was even proposed to give a
subscription dinner in his honour, and they only gave up the idea at
his earnest request--reflecting possibly at last that the man had,
after all, been pulled by the nose and that that was really nothing
to congratulate him upon. Yet, how had it happened? How could it have
happened? It is remarkable that no one in the whole town put down this
savage act to madness. They must have been predisposed to expect such
actions from Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch, even when he was sane. For my part
I don't know to this day how to explain it, in spite of the event that
quickly followed and apparently explained everything, and conciliated
every one. I will add also that, four years later, in reply to a
discreet question from me about the incident at the club, Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch answered, frowning: "I wasn't quite well at the time."
But there is no need to anticipate events.
The general outburst of hatred with which every one fell upon the
"ruffian and duelling bully from the capital" also struck me as curious.
They insisted on seeing an insolent design and deliberate intention to
insult our whole society at once. The truth was no one liked the fellow,
but, on the contrary, he had set every one against him--and one wonders
how. Up to the last incident he had never quarrelled with anyone, nor
insulted anyone, but was as courteous as a gentleman in a fashion-plate,
if only the latter were able to speak. I imagine that he was hated for
his pride. Even our ladies, who had begun by adoring him, railed against
him now, more loudly than the men. Varvara Petrovna was dreadfully
overwhelmed. She confessed afterwards to Stepan Trofimovitch that she
had had a foreboding of all this long before, that every day for the
last six months she had been expecting "just something of that sort,"
a remarkable admission on the part of his own mother. "It's begun!" she
thought to herself with a shudder. The morning after the incident at the
club she cautiously but firmly approached the subject with her son, but
the poor woman was trembling all over in spite of her firmness. She had
not slept all night and even went out early to Stepan Trofimovitch's
lodgings to ask his advice, and shed tears there, a thing which she had
never been known to do before anyone. She longed for "Nicolas" to say
something to her, to deign to give some explanation. Nikolay, who was
always so polite and respectful to his mother, listened to her for some
time scowling, but very seriously. He suddenly got up without saying
a word, kissed her hand and went away. That very evening, as though by
design, he perpetrated another scandal. It was of a more harmless and
ordinary character than the first. Yet, owing to the state of the public
mind, it increased the outcry in the town.
