"We came away utterly at a loss," Stepan Trofimovitch used to say
afterwards. "I couldn't make head or tail of it, and kept muttering, I
remember, to the rumble of the train:
     'Vyek, and vyek, and Lyov Kambek,
     Lyov Kambek and vyek, and vyek.'
and goodness knows what, all the way to Moscow. It was only in Moscow
that I came to myself--as though we really might find something
different there."
"Oh, my friends!" he would exclaim to us sometimes with fervour, "you
cannot imagine what wrath and sadness overcome your whole soul when a
great idea, which you have long cherished as holy, is caught up by the
ignorant and dragged forth before fools like themselves into the street,
and you suddenly meet it in the market unrecognisable, in the mud,
absurdly set up, without proportion, without harmony, the plaything of
foolish louts! No! In our day it was not so, and it was not this for
which we strove. No, no, not this at all. I don't recognise it.... Our
day will come again and will turn all the tottering fabric of to-day
into a true path. If not, what will happen?..."
VII
Immediately on their return from Petersburg Varvara Petrovna sent her
friend abroad to "recruit"; and, indeed, it was necessary for them to
part for a time, she felt that. Stepan Trofimovitch was delighted to go.
"There I shall revive!" he exclaimed. "There, at last, I shall set to
work!" But in the first of his letters from Berlin he struck his usual
note:
"My heart is broken!" he wrote to Varvara Petrovna. "I can forget
nothing! Here, in Berlin, everything brings back to me my old past, my
first raptures and my first agonies. Where is she? Where are they both?
Where are you two angels of whom I was never worthy? Where is my son, my
beloved son? And last of all, where am I, where is my old self, strong
as steel, firm as a rock, when now some Andreev, our orthodox clown with
a beard, _peut briser mon existence en deux_"--and so on.
As for Stepan Trofimovitch's son, he had only seen him twice in his
life, the first time when he was born and the second time lately in
Petersburg, where the young man was preparing to enter the university.
The boy had been all his life, as we have said already, brought up by
his aunts (at Varvara Petrovna's expense) in a remote province, nearly
six hundred miles from Skvoreshniki. As for Andreev, he was nothing
more or less than our local shopkeeper, a very eccentric fellow, a
self-taught archaeologist who had a passion for collecting Russian
antiquities and sometimes tried to outshine Stepan Trofimovitch in
erudition and in the progressiveness of his opinions. This worthy
shopkeeper, with a grey beard and silver-rimmed spectacles, still owed
Stepan Trofimovitch four hundred roubles for some acres of timber he had
bought on the latter's little estate (near Skvoreshniki). Though Varvara
Petrovna had liberally provided her friend with funds when she sent him
to Berlin, yet Stepan Trofimovitch had, before starting, particularly
reckoned on getting that four hundred roubles, probably for his secret
expenditure, and was ready to cry when Andreev asked leave to defer
payment for a month, which he had a right to do, since he had brought
the first installments of the money almost six months in advance to meet
Stepan Trofimovitch's special need at the time.
