"Tell me, how do you intend to live now, and what are your plans?"
interrupted the general.
"I wish to work, somehow or other."
"Oh yes, but then, you see, you are a philosopher. Have you any talents,
or ability in any direction--that is, any that would bring in money and
bread? Excuse me again--"
"Oh, don't apologize. No, I don't think I have either talents or special
abilities of any kind; on the contrary. I have always been an invalid
and unable to learn much. As for bread, I should think--"
The general interrupted once more with questions; while the prince again
replied with the narrative we have heard before. It appeared that the
general had known Pavlicheff; but why the latter had taken an interest
in the prince, that young gentleman could not explain; probably by
virtue of the old friendship with his father, he thought.
The prince had been left an orphan when quite a little child, and
Pavlicheff had entrusted him to an old lady, a relative of his own,
living in the country, the child needing the fresh air and exercise of
country life. He was educated, first by a governess, and afterwards by a
tutor, but could not remember much about this time of his life. His fits
were so frequent then, that they made almost an idiot of him (the prince
used the expression "idiot" himself). Pavlicheff had met Professor
Schneider in Berlin, and the latter had persuaded him to send the boy
to Switzerland, to Schneider's establishment there, for the cure of his
epilepsy, and, five years before this time, the prince was sent off. But
Pavlicheff had died two or three years since, and Schneider had himself
supported the young fellow, from that day to this, at his own expense.
Although he had not quite cured him, he had greatly improved his
condition; and now, at last, at the prince's own desire, and because
of a certain matter which came to the ears of the latter, Schneider had
despatched the young man to Russia.
The general was much astonished.
"Then you have no one, absolutely _no_ one in Russia?" he asked.
"No one, at present; but I hope to make friends; and then I have a
letter from--"
"At all events," put in the general, not listening to the news about the
letter, "at all events, you must have learned _something_, and your
malady would not prevent your undertaking some easy work, in one of the
departments, for instance?"
"Oh dear no, oh no! As for a situation, I should much like to find one
for I am anxious to discover what I really am fit for. I have learned
a good deal in the last four years, and, besides, I read a great many
Russian books."
"Russian books, indeed? Then, of course, you can read and write quite
correctly?"
"Oh dear, yes!"
"Capital! And your handwriting?"
"Ah, there I am _really_ talented! I may say I am a real caligraphist. Let
me write you something, just to show you," said the prince, with some
excitement.
