On the other hand, I saw a Frenchman first win, and then lose, 30,000
francs cheerfully, and without a murmur. Yes; even if a gentleman
should lose his whole substance, he must never give way to annoyance.
Money must be so subservient to gentility as never to be worth a
thought.  Of course, the SUPREMELY aristocratic thing is to be entirely
oblivious of the mire of rabble, with its setting; but sometimes a
reverse course may be aristocratic to remark, to scan, and even to gape
at, the mob (for preference, through a lorgnette), even as though one
were taking the crowd and its squalor for a sort of raree show which
had been organised specially for a gentleman's diversion. Though one
may be squeezed by the crowd, one must look as though one were fully
assured of being the observer--of having neither part nor lot with the
observed. At the same time, to stare fixedly about one is unbecoming;
for that, again, is ungentlemanly, seeing that no spectacle is worth an
open stare--are no spectacles in the world which merit from a gentleman
too pronounced an inspection.
However, to me personally the scene DID seem to be worth undisguised
contemplation--more especially in view of the fact that I had come
there not only to look at, but also to number myself sincerely and
wholeheartedly with, the mob. As for my secret moral views, I had no
room for them amongst my actual, practical opinions. Let that stand as
written: I am writing only to relieve my conscience. Yet let me say
also this: that from the first I have been consistent in having an
intense aversion to any trial of my acts and thoughts by a moral
standard. Another standard altogether has directed my life....
As a matter of fact, the mob was playing in exceedingly foul fashion.
Indeed, I have an idea that sheer robbery was going on around that
gaming-table. The croupiers who sat at the two ends of it had not only
to watch the stakes, but also to calculate the game--an immense amount
of work for two men! As for the crowd itself--well, it consisted mostly
of Frenchmen. Yet I was not then taking notes merely in order to be
able to give you a description of roulette, but in order to get my
bearings as to my behaviour when I myself should begin to play. For
example, I noticed that nothing was more common than for another's hand
to stretch out and grab one's winnings whenever one had won. Then there
would arise a dispute, and frequently an uproar; and it would be a case
of "I beg of you to prove, and to produce witnesses to the fact, that
the stake is yours."
At first the proceedings were pure Greek to me. I could only divine and
distinguish that stakes were hazarded on numbers, on "odd" or "even,"
and on colours. Polina's money I decided to risk, that evening, only to
the amount of 100 gulden. The thought that I was not going to play for
myself quite unnerved me. It was an unpleasant sensation, and I tried
hard to banish it. I had a feeling that, once I had begun to play for
Polina, I should wreck my own fortunes. Also, I wonder if any one has
EVER approached a gaming-table without falling an immediate prey to
superstition? I began by pulling out fifty gulden, and staking them on
"even." The wheel spun and stopped at 13. I had lost! With a feeling
like a sick qualm, as though I would like to make my way out of the
crowd and go home, I staked another fifty gulden--this time on the red.
The red turned up. Next time I staked the 100 gulden just where they
lay--and again the red turned up. Again I staked the whole sum, and
again the red turned up. Clutching my 400 gulden, I placed 200 of them
on twelve figures, to see what would come of it. The result was that
the croupier paid me out three times my total stake! Thus from 100
gulden my store had grown to 800! Upon that such a curious, such an
inexplicable, unwonted feeling overcame me that I decided to depart.
Always the thought kept recurring to me that if I had been playing for
myself alone I should never have had such luck. Once more I staked the
whole 800 gulden on the "even." The wheel stopped at 4. I was paid out
another 800 gulden, and, snatching up my pile of 1600, departed in
search of Polina  Alexandrovna.
