"And would you marry a woman like that, now?" continued Gania, never
taking his excited eyes off the prince's face.
"I cannot marry at all," said the latter. "I am an invalid."
"Would Rogojin marry her, do you think?"
"Why not? Certainly he would, I should think. He would marry her
tomorrow!--marry her tomorrow and murder her in a week!"
Hardly had the prince uttered the last word when Gania gave such a
fearful shudder that the prince almost cried out.
"What's the matter?" said he, seizing Gania's hand.
"Your highness! His excellency begs your presence in her excellency's
apartments!" announced the footman, appearing at the door.
The prince immediately followed the man out of the room.
IV.
All three of the Miss Epanchins were fine, healthy girls, well-grown,
with good shoulders and busts, and strong--almost masculine--hands;
and, of course, with all the above attributes, they enjoyed capital
appetites, of which they were not in the least ashamed.
Elizabetha Prokofievna sometimes informed the girls that they were
a little too candid in this matter, but in spite of their outward
deference to their mother these three young women, in solemn conclave,
had long agreed to modify the unquestioning obedience which they had
been in the habit of according to her; and Mrs. General Epanchin had
judged it better to say nothing about it, though, of course, she was
well aware of the fact.
It is true that her nature sometimes rebelled against these dictates
of reason, and that she grew yearly more capricious and impatient; but
having a respectful and well-disciplined husband under her thumb at
all times, she found it possible, as a rule, to empty any little
accumulations of spleen upon his head, and therefore the harmony of the
family was kept duly balanced, and things went as smoothly as family
matters can.
Mrs. Epanchin had a fair appetite herself, and generally took her share
of the capital mid-day lunch which was always served for the girls, and
which was nearly as good as a dinner. The young ladies used to have a
cup of coffee each before this meal, at ten o'clock, while still in bed.
This was a favourite and unalterable arrangement with them. At half-past
twelve, the table was laid in the small dining-room, and occasionally
the general himself appeared at the family gathering, if he had time.
Besides tea and coffee, cheese, honey, butter, pan-cakes of various
kinds (the lady of the house loved these best), cutlets, and so on,
there was generally strong beef soup, and other substantial delicacies.
On the particular morning on which our story has opened, the family had
assembled in the dining-room, and were waiting the general's appearance,
the latter having promised to come this day. If he had been one moment
late, he would have been sent for at once; but he turned up punctually.
As he came forward to wish his wife good-morning and kiss her hands, as
his custom was, he observed something in her look which boded ill. He
thought he knew the reason, and had expected it, but still, he was not
altogether comfortable. His daughters advanced to kiss him, too, and
though they did not look exactly angry, there was something strange in
their expression as well.
