Some of our Mordasoff folk went over to welcome him on his arrival; but
they were either not received at all or received in the strangest fashion.
The prince did not recognise his old friends: many people explained that
he did not _wish_ to recognise them. Among other visitors to Donchanovo
was the Governor.
On the return of the latter from his visit, he declared that the prince
was undoubtedly a little "off his head." The Governor always made a face
if anyone reminded him of this visit of his to Donchanovo. The ladies were
dreadfully offended.
At last an important fact was revealed: namely, that there was with the
prince, and apparently in authority over him, some unknown person of the
name of Stepanida Matveyevna, who had come down with him from St.
Petersburg; an elderly fat woman in a calico dress, who went about with
the house-keys in her hand; and that the prince obeyed this woman like a
little child, and did not dare take a step without her leave; that she
washed him and dressed him and soothed and petted him just like a nurse
with a baby; and lastly, that she kept all visitors away from him, even
relations--who, little by little, had begun to pervade the place rather too
frequently, for the purpose of seeing that all was right.
It was said that this person managed not only the prince, but his estate
too: she turned off bailiffs and clerks, she encashed the rents, she
looked after things in general--and did it well, too; so that the peasants
blessed their fate under her rule.
As for the prince, it was rumoured that he spent his days now almost
entirely at his toilet-table, trying on wigs and dress-coats, and that the
rest of his time was spent playing cards and games with Stepanida
Matveyevna, and riding on a quiet old English mare. On such occasions his
nurse always accompanied him in a covered droshky, because the prince
liked to ride out of bravado, but was most unsafe in his saddle.
He had been seen on foot too, in a long great coat and a straw hat with a
wide brim; a pink silk lady's tie round his neck, and a basket on his arm
for mushrooms and flowers and berries, and so on, which he collected. The
nurse accompanied him, and a few yards behind walked a manservant, while a
carriage was in attendance on the high road at the side. When any peasant
happened to meet him, and with low bow, and hat in hand, said, "Good
morning, your highness--our beloved Sun, and Father of us all," or some
such Russian greeting, he would stick his eye-glass in his eye, nod his
head and say, with great urbanity, and in French, "Bon jour, mon ami, bon
jour!"
Lots of other rumours there were--in fact, our folks could not forget that
the prince lived so near them.
What, then, must have been the general amazement when one fine day it was
trumpeted abroad that the prince--their curious old hermit-prince, had
arrived at Mordasoff, and put up at Maria Alexandrovna's house!
