CHAPTER IV.
At first sight you would not take this prince for an old man at all, and
it is only when you come near and take a good look at him, that you see he
is merely a dead man working on wires. All the resources of science are
brought to bear upon this mummy, in order to give it the appearance of
life and youth. A marvellous wig, glorious whiskers, moustache and
napoleon--all of the most raven black--cover half his face. He is painted
and powdered with very great skill, so much so that one can hardly detect
any wrinkles. What has become of them, goodness only knows.
He is dressed in the pink of fashion, just as though he had walked
straight out of a tailor's fashion-page. His coat, his gloves, tie, his
waistcoat, his linen, are all in perfect taste, and in the very last mode.
The prince limps slightly, but so slightly that one would suppose he did
it on purpose because _that_ was in fashion too. In his eye he wears a
glass--in the eye which is itself glass already.
He was soaked with scent. His speech and manner of pronouncing certain
syllables was full of affectation; and this was, perhaps, all that he
retained of the mannerisms and tricks of his younger days. For if the
prince had not quite lost his wits as yet, he had certainly parted with
nearly every vestige of his memory, which--alas!--is a thing which no amount
of perfumeries and wigs and rouge and tight-lacing will renovate. He
continually forgets words in the midst of conversation, and loses his way,
which makes it a matter of some difficulty to carry on a conversation with
him. However, Maria Alexandrovna has confidence in her inborn dexterity,
and at sight of the prince she flies into a condition of unspeakable
rapture.
"Oh! but you've not changed, you've not changed a _bit_!" she cries,
seizing her guest by both hands, and popping him into a comfortable
arm-chair. "Sit down, dear Prince, do sit down! Six years, prince, six
whole long years since we saw each other, and not a letter, not a little
tiny scrap of a note all the while. _Oh_, how naughty you have been,
prince! And _how_ angry I have been with you, my dear friend! But, tea!
tea! Good Heavens, Nastasia Petrovna, tea for the prince, quick!"
"Th--thanks, thanks; I'm very s--orry!" stammered the old man (I forgot to
mention that he stammered a little, but he did even this as though it were
the fashion to do it). "Very s--sorry; fancy, I--I wanted to co--come last
year, but they t--told me there was cho--cho--cholera here."
"There was foot and mouth disease here, uncle," put in Mosgliakoff, by way
of distinguishing himself. Maria Alexandrovna gave him a severe look.
"Ye--yes, foot and mouth disease, or something of that s--sort," said the
prince; "so I st--stayed at home. Well, and how's your h--husband, my dear
Anna Nic--Nicolaevna? Still at his proc--procuror's work?"
