[Exeunt.]
SCENE IV. The Forest of Arden.
[Enter ROSALIND in boy's clothes, CELIA dressed like a
shepherdess, and TOUCHSTONE.]
ROSALIND.
O Jupiter! how weary are my spirits!
TOUCHSTONE.
I care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.
ROSALIND.
I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel,
and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort the weaker vessel, as
doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat;
therefore, courage, good Aliena.
CELIA.
I pray you bear with me; I can go no further.
TOUCHSTONE.
For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear you:
yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you; for I think you
have no money in your purse.
ROSALIND.
Well, this is the forest of Arden.
TOUCHSTONE.
Ay, now am I in Arden: the more fool I; when I was at
home I was in a better place; but travellers must be content.
ROSALIND.
Ay, be so, good Touchstone.--Look you, who comes here?, a
young man and an old in solemn talk.
[Enter CORIN and SILVIUS.]
CORIN.
That is the way to make her scorn you still.
SILVIUS.
O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
CORIN.
I partly guess; for I have lov'd ere now.
SILVIUS.
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess;
Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow:
But if thy love were ever like to mine,--
As sure I think did never man love so,--
How many actions most ridiculous
Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
CORIN.
Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
SILVIUS.
O, thou didst then never love so heartily:
If thou remember'st not the slightest folly
That ever love did make thee run into,
Thou hast not lov'd:
Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,
Wearing thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
Thou hast not lov'd:
Or if thou hast not broke from company
Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
Thou hast not lov'd: O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!
[Exit Silvius.]
ROSALIND.
Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
I have by hard adventure found mine own.
TOUCHSTONE.
And I mine. I remember, when I was in love, I broke my
sword upon a stone, and bid him take that for coming a-night to
Jane Smile: and I remember the kissing of her batlet, and the
cow's dugs that her pretty chapp'd hands had milk'd: and I
remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her; from whom I took
two cods, and giving her them again, said with weeping tears,
'Wear these for my sake.' We that are true lovers run into
strange capers; but as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature
in love mortal in folly.
ROSALIND.
Thou speak'st wiser than thou art 'ware of.
TOUCHSTONE.
Nay, I shall ne'er be 'ware of mine own wit till I break my shins
against it.
