   Bru. Good or bad?
  Men. Not according to the prayer of the people, for
they loue not Martius
   Sicin. Nature teaches Beasts to know their Friends
   Men. Pray you, who does the Wolfe loue?
  Sicin. The Lambe
   Men. I, to deuour him, as the hungry Plebeians would
the Noble Martius
   Bru. He's a Lambe indeed, that baes like a Beare
   Men. Hee's a Beare indeede, that liues like a Lambe.
You two are old men, tell me one thing that I shall aske
you
   Both. Well sir
   Men. In what enormity is Martius poore in, that you
two haue not in abundance?
  Bru. He's poore in no one fault, but stor'd withall
   Sicin. Especially in Pride
   Bru. And topping all others in boasting
   Men. This is strange now: Do you two know, how
you are censured heere in the City, I mean of vs a'th' right
hand File, do you?
  Both. Why? how are we censur'd?
  Men. Because you talke of Pride now, will you not
be angry
   Both. Well, well sir, well
   Men. Why 'tis no great matter: for a very little theefe
of Occasion, will rob you of a great deale of Patience:
Giue your dispositions the reines, and bee angry at your
pleasures (at the least) if you take it as a pleasure to you, in
being so: you blame Martius for being proud
   Brut. We do it not alone, sir
   Men. I know you can doe very little alone, for your
helpes are many, or else your actions would growe wondrous
single: your abilities are to Infant-like, for dooing
much alone. You talke of Pride: Oh, that you could turn
your eyes toward the Napes of your neckes, and make
but an Interiour suruey of your good selues. Oh that you
could
   Both. What then sir?
  Men. Why then you should discouer a brace of vnmeriting,
proud, violent, testie Magistrates (alias Fooles)
as any in Rome
   Sicin. Menenius, you are knowne well enough too
   Men. I am knowne to be a humorous Patritian, and
one that loues a cup of hot Wine, with not a drop of alaying
Tiber in't: Said, to be something imperfect in fauouring
the first complaint, hasty and Tinder-like vppon, to
triuiall motion: One, that conuerses more with the Buttocke
of the night, then with the forhead of the morning.
What I think, I vtter, and spend my malice in my breath.
Meeting two such Weales men as you are (I cannot call
you Licurgusses,) if the drinke you giue me, touch my Palat
aduersly, I make a crooked face at it, I can say, your
Worshippes haue deliuer'd the matter well, when I finde
the Asse in compound, with the Maior part of your syllables.
And though I must be content to beare with those,
that say you are reuerend graue men, yet they lye deadly,
that tell you haue good faces, if you see this in the Map
of my Microcosme, followes it that I am knowne well enough
too? What harme can your beesome Conspectuities
gleane out of this Charracter, if I be knowne well enough
too
