   Horat. Is it a custome?
  Ham. I marry ist;
And to my mind, though I am natiue heere,
And to the manner borne: It is a Custome
More honour'd in the breach, then the obseruance.
Enter Ghost.
  Hor. Looke my Lord, it comes
   Ham. Angels and Ministers of Grace defend vs:
Be thou a Spirit of health, or Goblin damn'd,
Bring with thee ayres from Heauen, or blasts from Hell,
Be thy euents wicked or charitable,
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
That I will speake to thee. Ile call thee Hamlet,
King, Father, Royall Dane: Oh, oh, answer me,
Let me not burst in Ignorance; but tell
Why thy Canoniz'd bones Hearsed in death,
Haue burst their cerments, why the Sepulcher
Wherein we saw thee quietly enurn'd,
Hath op'd his ponderous and Marble iawes,
To cast thee vp againe? What may this meane?
That thou dead Coarse againe in compleat steele,
Reuisits thus the glimpses of the Moone,
Making Night hidious? And we fooles of Nature,
So horridly to shake our disposition,
With thoughts beyond thee; reaches of our Soules,
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we doe?
Ghost beckens Hamlet.
  Hor. It beckons you to goe away with it,
As if it some impartment did desire
To you alone
   Mar. Looke with what courteous action
It wafts you to a more remoued ground:
But doe not goe with it
   Hor. No, by no meanes
   Ham. It will not speake: then will I follow it
   Hor. Doe not my Lord
   Ham. Why, what should be the feare?
I doe not set my life at a pins fee;
And for my Soule, what can it doe to that?
Being a thing immortall as it selfe:
It waues me forth againe; Ile follow it
   Hor. What if it tempt you toward the Floud my Lord?
Or to the dreadfull Sonnet of the Cliffe,
That beetles o're his base into the Sea,
And there assumes some other horrible forme,
Which might depriue your Soueraignty of Reason,
And draw you into madnesse thinke of it?
  Ham. It wafts me still: goe on, Ile follow thee
   Mar. You shall not goe my Lord
   Ham. Hold off your hand
   Hor. Be rul'd, you shall not goe
   Ham. My fate cries out,
And makes each petty Artire in this body,
As hardy as the Nemian Lions nerue:
Still am I cal'd? Vnhand me Gentlemen:
By Heau'n, Ile make a Ghost of him that lets me:
I say away, goe on, Ile follow thee.
Exeunt. Ghost & Hamlet.
  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination
   Mar. Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him
   Hor. Haue after, to what issue will this come?
  Mar. Something is rotten in the State of Denmarke
   Hor. Heauen will direct it
   Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
Exeunt.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
  Ham. Where wilt thou lead me? speak; Ile go no further
   Gho. Marke me
   Ham. I will
   Gho. My hower is almost come,
When I to sulphurous and tormenting Flames
Must render vp my selfe
