   Card. My Lord Sands,
I am beholding to you: cheere your neighbours:
Ladies you are not merry; Gentlemen,
Whose fault is this?
  San. The red wine first must rise
In their faire cheekes my Lord, then wee shall haue 'em,
Talke vs to silence
   An.B. You are a merry Gamster
My Lord Sands
   San. Yes, if I make my play:
Heer's to your Ladiship, and pledge it Madam:
For tis to such a thing
   An.B. You cannot shew me.
Drum and Trumpet, Chambers dischargd.
  San. I told your Grace, they would talke anon
   Card. What's that?
  Cham. Looke out there, some of ye
   Card. What warlike voyce,
And to what end is this? Nay, Ladies, feare not;
By all the lawes of Warre y'are priuiledg'd.
Enter a Seruant.
  Cham. How now, what is't?
  Seru. A noble troupe of Strangers,
For so they seeme; th' haue left their Barge and landed,
And hither make, as great Embassadors
From forraigne Princes
   Card. Good Lord Chamberlaine,
Go, giue 'em welcome; you can speake the French tongue
And pray receiue 'em Nobly, and conduct 'em
Into our presence, where this heauen of beauty
Shall shine at full vpon them. Some attend him.
All rise, and Tables remou'd.
You haue now a broken Banket, but wee'l mend it.
A good digestion to you all; and once more
I showre a welcome on yee: welcome all.
Hoboyes. Enter King and others as Maskers, habited like
Shepheards,
vsher'd by the Lord Chamberlaine. They passe directly before the
Cardinall
and gracefully salute him.
A noble Company: what are their pleasures?
  Cham. Because they speak no English, thus they praid
To tell your Grace: That hauing heard by fame
Of this so Noble and so faire assembly,
This night to meet heere they could doe no lesse,
(Out of the great respect they beare to beauty)
But leaue their Flockes, and vnder your faire Conduct
Craue leaue to view these Ladies, and entreat
An houre of Reuels with 'em
   Card. Say, Lord Chamberlaine,
They haue done my poore house grace:
For which I pay 'em a thousand thankes,
And pray 'em take their pleasures.
Choose Ladies, King and An Bullen.
  King. The fairest hand I euer touch'd: O Beauty,
Till now I neuer knew thee.
Musicke, Dance.
  Card. My Lord
   Cham. Your Grace
   Card. Pray tell 'em thus much from me:
There should be one amongst 'em by his person
More worthy this place then my selfe, to whom
(If I but knew him) with my loue and duty
I would surrender it.
Whisper.
  Cham. I will my Lord
   Card. What say they?
  Cham. Such a one, they all confesse
There is indeed, which they would haue your Grace
Find out, and he will take it
   Card. Let me see then,
By all your good leaues Gentlemen; heere Ile make
My royall choyce
   Kin. Ye haue found him Cardinall,
You hold a faire Assembly; you doe well Lord:
You are a Churchman, or Ile tell you Cardinall,
I should iudge now vnhappily
