   Prince. When I returne with victorie to the field,
Ile see your Grace: till then, Ile follow her
   Queene. Come Sonne away, we may not linger thus
   Henry. Poore Queene,
How loue to me, and to her Sonne,
Hath made her breake out into termes of Rage.
Reueng'd may she be on that hatefull Duke,
Whose haughtie spirit, winged with desire,
Will cost my Crowne, and like an emptie Eagle,
Tyre on the flesh of me, and of my Sonne.
The losse of those three Lords torments my heart:
Ile write vnto them, and entreat them faire;
Come Cousin, you shall be the Messenger
   Exet. And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.
Enter.
Flourish. Enter Richard, Edward, and Mountague.
  Richard. Brother, though I bee youngest, giue mee
leaue
   Edward. No, I can better play the Orator
   Mount. But I haue reasons strong and forceable.
Enter the Duke of Yorke.
  Yorke. Why how now Sonnes, and Brother, at a strife?
What is your Quarrell? how began it first?
  Edward. No Quarrell, but a slight Contention
   Yorke. About what?
  Rich. About that which concernes your Grace and vs,
The Crowne of England, Father, which is yours
   Yorke. Mine Boy? not till King Henry be dead
   Richard. Your Right depends not on his life, or death
   Edward. Now you are Heire, therefore enioy it now:
By giuing the House of Lancaster leaue to breathe,
It will out-runne you, Father, in the end
   Yorke. I tooke an Oath, that hee should quietly
reigne
   Edward. But for a Kingdome any Oath may be broken:
I would breake a thousand Oathes, to reigne one yeere
   Richard. No: God forbid your Grace should be forsworne
   Yorke. I shall be, if I clayme by open Warre
   Richard. Ile proue the contrary, if you'le heare mee
speake
   Yorke. Thou canst not, Sonne: it is impossible
   Richard. An Oath is of no moment, being not tooke
Before a true and lawfull Magistrate,
That hath authoritie ouer him that sweares.
Henry had none, but did vsurpe the place.
Then seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,
Your Oath, my Lord, is vaine and friuolous.
Therefore to Armes: and Father doe but thinke,
How sweet a thing it is to weare a Crowne,
Within whose Circuit is Elizium,
And all that Poets faine of Blisse and Ioy.
Why doe we linger thus? I cannot rest,
Vntill the White Rose that I weare, be dy'de
Euen in the luke-warme blood of Henries heart
   Yorke. Richard ynough: I will be King, or dye.
Brother, thou shalt to London presently,
And whet on Warwick to this Enterprise.
Thou Richard shalt to the Duke of Norfolke,
And tell him priuily of our intent.
You Edward shall vnto my Lord Cobham,
With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise.
In them I trust: for they are Souldiors,
Wittie, courteous, liberall, full of spirit.
While you are thus imploy'd, what resteth more?
But that I seeke occasion how to rise,
And yet the King not priuie to my Drift,
Nor any of the House of Lancaster.
