Exit Lord Chamberlaine.
  An. My honour'd Lord
   Old.L. Why this it is: See, see,
I haue beene begging sixteene yeares in Court
(Am yet a Courtier beggerly) nor could
Come pat betwixt too early, and too late
For any suit of pounds: and you, (oh fate)
A very fresh Fish heere; fye, fye, fye vpon
This compel'd fortune: haue your mouth fild vp,
Before you open it
   An. This is strange to me
   Old L. How tasts it? Is it bitter? Forty pence, no:
There was a Lady once (tis an old Story)
That would not be a Queene, that would she not
For all the mud in Egypt; haue you heard it?
  An. Come you are pleasant
   Old.L. With your Theame, I could
O're-mount the Larke: The Marchionesse of Pembrooke?
A thousand pounds a yeare, for pure respect?
No other obligation? by my Life,
That promises mo thousands: Honours traine
Is longer then his fore-skirt; by this time
I know your backe will beare a Dutchesse. Say,
Are you not stronger then you were?
  An. Good Lady,
Make your selfe mirth with your particular fancy,
And leaue me out on't. Would I had no being
If this salute my blood a iot; it faints me
To thinke what followes.
The Queene is comfortlesse, and wee forgetfull
In our long absence: pray doe not deliuer,
What heere y'haue heard to her
   Old L. What doe you thinke me -
Exeunt.
Scena Quarta.
Trumpets, Sennet, and Cornets. Enter two Vergers, with short
siluer
wands; next them two Scribes in the habite of Doctors; after them,
the
Bishop of Canterbury alone; after him, the Bishops of Lincolne,
Ely,
Rochester, and S[aint]. Asaph: Next them, with some small
distance,
followes a Gentleman bearing the Purse, with the great Seale, and
a
Cardinals Hat: Then two Priests, bearing each a Siluer Crosse:
Then a
Gentleman Vsher bareheaded, accompanyed with a Sergeant at
Armes, bearing
a Siluer Mace: Then two Gentlemen bearing two great Siluer
Pillers: After
them, side by side, the two Cardinals, two Noblemen, with the
Sword and
Mace. The King takes place vnder the Cloth of State. The two
Cardinalls
sit vnder him as Iudges. The Queene takes place some distance
from the
King. The Bishops place themselues on each side the Court in
manner of a
Consistory: Below them the Scribes. The Lords sit next the
Bishops. The
rest of the Attendants stand in conuenient order about the Stage.
  Car. Whil'st our Commission from Rome is read,
Let silence be commanded
   King. What's the need?
It hath already publiquely bene read,
And on all sides th' Authority allow'd,
You may then spare that time
   Car. Bee't so, proceed
   Scri. Say, Henry K[ing]. of England, come into the Court
   Crier. Henry King of England, &c
   King. Heere
   Scribe. Say, Katherine Queene of England,
Come into the Court
   Crier. Katherine Queene of England, &c.
The Queene makes no answer, rises out of her Chaire, goes about
the
Court, comes to the King, and kneeles at his Feete. Then speakes.
