   Prince. Speake sirs, how was it?
  Gad. We foure set vpon some dozen
   Falst. Sixteene, at least, my Lord
   Gad. And bound them
   Peto. No, no, they were not bound
   Falst. You Rogue, they were bound, euery man of
them, or I am a Iew else, an Ebrew Iew
   Gad. As we were sharing, some sixe or seuen fresh men
set vpon vs
   Falst. And vnbound the rest, and then come in the
other
   Prince. What, fought yee with them all?
  Falst. All? I know not what yee call all: but if I
fought not with fiftie of them, I am a bunch of Radish:
if there were not two or three and fiftie vpon poore olde
Iack, then am I no two-legg'd Creature
   Poin. Pray Heauen, you haue not murthered some of
them
   Falst. Nay, that's past praying for, I haue pepper'd
two of them: Two I am sure I haue payed, two Rogues
in Buckrom Sutes. I tell thee what, Hal, if I tell thee a
Lye, spit in my face, call me Horse: thou knowest my olde
word: here I lay, and thus I bore my point; foure Rogues
in Buckrom let driue at me
   Prince. What, foure? thou sayd'st but two, euen now
   Falst. Foure Hal, I told thee foure
   Poin. I, I, he said foure
   Falst. These foure came all a-front, and mainely thrust
at me; I made no more adoe, but tooke all their seuen
points in my Targuet, thus
   Prince. Seuen? why there were but foure, euen now
   Falst. In buckrom
   Poin. I, foure, in Buckrom Sutes
   Falst. Seuen, by these Hilts, or I am a Villaine else
   Prin. Prethee let him alone, we shall haue more anon
   Falst. Doest thou heare me, Hal?
  Prin. I, and marke thee too, Iack
   Falst. Doe so, for it is worth the listning too: these
nine in Buckrom, that I told thee of
   Prin. So, two more alreadie
   Falst. Their Points being broken
   Poin. Downe fell his Hose
   Falst. Began to giue me ground: but I followed me
close, came in foot and hand; and with a thought, seuen of
the eleuen I pay'd
   Prin. O monstrous! eleuen Buckrom men growne
out of two?
  Falst. But as the Deuill would haue it, three mis-begotten
Knaues, in Kendall Greene, came at my Back, and
let driue at me; for it was so darke, Hal, that thou could'st
not see thy Hand
   Prin. These Lyes are like the Father that begets them,
grosse as a Mountaine, open, palpable. Why thou Claybrayn'd
Guts, thou Knotty-pated Foole, thou Horson obscene
greasie Tallow Catch
   Falst. What, art thou mad? art thou mad? is not the
truth, the truth?
  Prin. Why, how could'st thou know these men in
Kendall Greene, when it was so darke, thou could'st not
see thy Hand? Come, tell vs your reason: what say'st thou
to this?
  Poin. Come, your reason Iack, your reason
   Falst. What, vpon compulsion? No: were I at the
Strappado, or all the Racks in the World, I would not
tell you on compulsion. Giue you a reason on compulsion?
If Reasons were as plentie as Black-berries, I would
giue no man a Reason vpon compulsion, I
