[Exeunt Gloster and Messenger.]
Follow I must; I cannot go before
While Gloster bears this base and humble mind.
Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,
I would remove these tedious stumbling-blocks
And smooth my way upon their headless necks;
And, being a woman, I will not be slack
To play my part in Fortune's pageant.--
Where are you there?  Sir John! nay, fear not, man,
We are alone; here's none but thee and I.
[Enter HUME.]
HUME.
Jesus preserve your royal majesty!
DUCHESS.
What say'st thou? majesty!  I am but grace.
HUME.
But, by the grace of God, and Hume's advice,
Your grace's title shall be multiplied.
DUCHESS.
What say'st thou, man? hast thou as yet conferr'd
With Margery Jourdain, the cunning witch,
With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer?
And will they undertake to do me good?
HUME.
This they have promised,--to show your highness
A spirit rais'd from depth of underground,
That shall make answer to such questions
As by your Grace shall be propounded him.
DUCHESS.
It is enough; I'll think upon the questions.
When from Saint Alban's we do make return,
We'll see these things effected to the full.
Here, Hume, take this reward; make merry, man,
With thy confederates in this weighty cause.
[Exit.]
HUME.
Hume must make merry with the duchess' gold,
Marry, and shall. But, how now, Sir John Hume!
Seal up your lips, and give no words but mum;
The business asketh silent secrecy.
Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch;
Gold cannot come amiss, were she a devil.
Yet have I gold flies from another coast.
I dare not say, from the rich cardinal
And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk,
Yet I do find it so; for, to be plain,
They, knowing Dame Eleanor's aspiring humour,
Have hired me to undermine the duchess
And buzz these conjurations in her brain.
They say ' A crafty knave does need no broker;'
Yet am I Suffolk and the cardinal's broker.
Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near
To call them both a pair of crafty knaves.
Well, so its stands; and thus, I fear, at last
Hume's knavery will be the duchess' wrack,
And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall.
Sort how it will, I shall have gold for all.
[Exit.]
SCENE III. London. The palace.
[Enter PETER and other PETITIONERS.]
1 PETITIONER.
My masters, let's stand close; my lord protector
will come this way by and by, and then we may deliver our
supplications in the quill.
2 PETITIONER.
Marry, the Lord protect him, for he's a good
man!  Jesu bless him!
[Enter SUFFOLK and QUEEN.]
PETER.
Here 'a comes, methinks, and the queen with him.
I'll be the first, sure.
2 PETITIONER.
Come back, fool; this is the Duke of Suffolk and
not my lord protector.
SUFFOLK.
How now, fellow! wouldst any thing with me?
1 PETITIONER.
I pray, my lord, pardon me; I took ye for my lord
protector.
QUEEN.
[Reading] 'To my Lord Protector!' Are your supplications
to his lordship? Let me see them; what is thine?
