   Lear. Because they are not eight
   Foole. Yes indeed, thou would'st make a good Foole
   Lear. To tak't againe perforce; Monster Ingratitude!
  Foole. If thou wert my Foole Nunckle, Il'd haue thee
beaten for being old before thy time
   Lear. How's that?
  Foole. Thou shouldst not haue bin old, till thou hadst
bin wise
   Lear. O let me not be mad, not mad sweet Heauen:
keepe me in temper, I would not be mad. How now are
the Horses ready?
  Gent. Ready my Lord
   Lear. Come Boy
   Fool. She that's a Maid now, & laughs at my departure,
Shall not be a Maid long, vnlesse things be cut shorter.
Exeunt.
Actus Secundus. Scena Prima.
Enter Bastard, and Curan, seuerally.
  Bast. Saue thee Curan
   Cur. And you Sir, I haue bin
With your Father, and giuen him notice
That the Duke of Cornwall, and Regan his Duchesse
Will be here with him this night
   Bast. How comes that?
  Cur. Nay I know not, you haue heard of the newes abroad,
I meane the whisper'd ones, for they are yet but
ear-kissing arguments
   Bast. Not I: pray you what are they?
  Cur. Haue you heard of no likely Warres toward,
'Twixt the Dukes of Cornwall, and Albany?
  Bast. Not a word
   Cur. You may do then in time,
Fare you well Sir.
Enter.
  Bast. The Duke be here to night? The better best,
This weaues it selfe perforce into my businesse,
My Father hath set guard to take my Brother,
And I haue one thing of a queazie question
Which I must act, Briefenesse, and Fortune worke.
Enter Edgar.
Brother, a word, discend; Brother I say,
My Father watches: O Sir, fly this place,
Intelligence is giuen where you are hid;
You haue now the good aduantage of the night,
Haue you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornewall?
Hee's comming hither, now i'th' night, i'th' haste,
And Regan with him, haue you nothing said
Vpon his partie 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
Aduise your selfe
   Edg. I am sure on't, not a word
   Bast. I heare my Father comming, pardon me:
In cunning, I must draw my Sword vpon you:
Draw, seeme to defend your selfe,
Now quit you well.
Yeeld, come before my Father, light hoa, here,
Fly Brother, Torches, Torches, so farewell.
Exit Edgar.
Some blood drawne on me, would beget opinion
Of my more fierce endeauour. I haue seene drunkards
Do more then this in sport; Father, Father,
Stop, stop, no helpe?
Enter Gloster, and Seruants with Torches.
  Glo. Now Edmund, where's the villaine?
  Bast. Here stood he in the dark, his sharpe Sword out,
Mumbling of wicked charmes, coniuring the Moone
To stand auspicious Mistris
   Glo. But where is he?
  Bast. Looke Sir, I bleed
   Glo. Where is the villaine, Edmund?
  Bast. Fled this way Sir, when by no meanes he could
   Glo. Pursue him, ho: go after. By no meanes, what?
  Bast. Perswade me to the murther of your Lordship,
But that I told him the reuenging Gods,
'Gainst Paricides did all the thunder bend,
Spoke with how manifold, and strong a Bond
The Child was bound to'th' Father; Sir in fine,
Seeing how lothly opposite I stood
To his vnnaturall purpose, in fell motion
With his prepared Sword, he charges home
My vnprouided body, latch'd mine arme;
And when he saw my best alarum'd spirits
Bold in the quarrels right, rouz'd to th' encounter,
Or whether gasted by the noyse I made,
Full sodainely he fled
