Storme and Tempest.
But this heart shal break into a hundred thousand flawes
Or ere Ile weepe; O Foole, I shall go mad.
Exeunt.
  Corn. Let vs withdraw, 'twill be a Storme
   Reg. This house is little, the old man and's people,
Cannot be well bestow'd
   Gon. 'Tis his owne blame hath put himselfe from rest,
And must needs taste his folly
   Reg. For his particular, Ile receiue him gladly,
But not one follower
   Gon. So am I purpos'd,
Where is my Lord of Gloster?
Enter Gloster.
  Corn. Followed the old man forth, he is return'd
   Glo. The King is in high rage
   Corn. Whether is he going?
  Glo. He cals to Horse, but will I know not whether
   Corn. 'Tis best to giue him way, he leads himselfe
   Gon. My Lord, entreate him by no meanes to stay
   Glo. Alacke the night comes on, and the high windes
Do sorely ruffle, for many Miles about
There's scarce a Bush
   Reg. O Sir, to wilfull men,
The iniuries that they themselues procure,
Must be their Schoole-Masters: shut vp your doores,
He is attended with a desperate traine,
And what they may incense him too, being apt,
To haue his eare abus'd, wisedome bids feare
   Cor. Shut vp your doores my Lord, 'tis a wil'd night,
My Regan counsels well: come out oth' storme.
Exeunt.
Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.
Storme still. Enter Kent, and a Gentleman, seuerally.
  Kent. Who's there besides foule weather?
  Gen. One minded like the weather, most vnquietly
   Kent. I know you: Where's the King?
  Gent. Contending with the fretfull Elements;
Bids the winde blow the Earth into the Sea,
Or swell the curled Waters 'boue the Maine,
That things might change, or cease
   Kent. But who is with him?
  Gent. None but the Foole, who labours to out-iest
His heart-strooke iniuries
   Kent. Sir, I do know you,
And dare vpon the warrant of my note
Commend a deere thing to you. There is diuision
(Although as yet the face of it is couer'd
With mutuall cunning) 'twixt Albany, and Cornwall:
Who haue, as who haue not, that their great Starres
Thron'd and set high; Seruants, who seeme no lesse,
Which are to France the Spies and Speculations
Intelligent of our State. What hath bin seene,
Either in snuffes, and packings of the Dukes,
Or the hard Reine which both of them hath borne
Against the old kinde King; or something deeper,
Whereof (perchance) these are but furnishings
   Gent. I will talke further with you
   Kent. No, do not:
For confirmation that I am much more
Then my out-wall; open this Purse, and take
What it containes. If you shall see Cordelia,
(As feare not but you shall) shew her this Ring,
And she will tell you who that Fellow is
That yet you do not know. Fye on this Storme,
I will go seeke the King
   Gent. Giue me your hand,
Haue you no more to say?
  Kent. Few words, but to effect more then all yet;
That when we haue found the King, in which your pain
That way, Ile this: He that first lights on him,
Holla the other.
