   Foole. Nunkle Lear, Nunkle Lear,
Tarry, take the Foole with thee:
A Fox, when one has caught her,
And such a Daughter,
Should sure to the Slaughter,
If my Cap would buy a Halter,
So the Foole followes after.
Exit
  Gon. This man hath had good Counsell,
A hundred Knights?
'Tis politike, and safe to let him keepe
At point a hundred Knights: yes, that on euerie dreame,
Each buz, each fancie, each complaint, dislike,
He may enguard his dotage with their powres,
And hold our liues in mercy. Oswald, I say
   Alb. Well, you may feare too farre
   Gon. Safer then trust too farre;
Let me still take away the harmes I feare,
Not feare still to be taken. I know his heart,
What he hath vtter'd I haue writ my Sister:
If she sustaine him, and his hundred Knights
When I haue shew'd th' vnfitnesse.
Enter Steward.
How now Oswald?
What haue you writ that Letter to my Sister?
  Stew. I Madam
   Gon. Take you some company, and away to horse,
Informe her full of my particular feare,
And thereto adde such reasons of your owne,
As may compact it more. Get you gone,
And hasten your returne; no, no, my Lord,
This milky gentlenesse, and course of yours
Though I condemne not, yet vnder pardon
You are much more at task for want of wisedome,
Then prais'd for harmefull mildnesse
   Alb. How farre your eies may pierce I cannot tell;
Striuing to better, oft we marre what's well
   Gon. Nay then-
  Alb. Well, well, th' euent.
Exeunt.
Scena Quinta.
Enter Lear, Kent, Gentleman, and Foole.
  Lear. Go you before to Gloster with these Letters;
acquaint my Daughter no further with any thing you
know, then comes from her demand out of the Letter,
if your Dilligence be not speedy, I shall be there afore
you
   Kent. I will not sleepe my Lord, till I haue deliuered
your Letter.
Enter.
  Foole. If a mans braines were in's heeles, wert not in
danger of kybes?
  Lear. I Boy
   Foole. Then I prythee be merry, thy wit shall not go
slip-shod
   Lear. Ha, ha, ha
   Fool. Shalt see thy other Daughter will vse thee kindly,
for though she's as like this, as a Crabbe's like an
Apple, yet I can tell what I can tell
   Lear. What can'st tell Boy?
  Foole. She will taste as like this as, a Crabbe do's to a
Crab: thou canst, tell why ones nose stands i'th' middle
on's face?
  Lear. No
   Foole. Why to keepe ones eyes of either side 's nose,
that what a man cannot smell out, he may spy into
   Lear. I did her wrong
   Foole. Can'st tell how an Oyster makes his shell?
  Lear. No
   Foole. Nor I neither; but I can tell why a Snaile ha's
a house
   Lear. Why?
  Foole. Why to put's head in, not to giue it away to his
daughters, and leaue his hornes without a case
   Lear. I will forget my Nature, so kind a Father? Be
my Horsses ready?
  Foole. Thy Asses are gone about 'em; the reason why
the seuen Starres are no mo then seuen, is a pretty reason
