    [Footnote *: At that moment the Earl of March was the lawful
    heir to the crown, he being the heir general of Lionel, Duke of
    Clarence, _third_ son of Edward III, whilst Henry V. was but the
    heir of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, King Edward's _fourth_
    son.]
HISTORICAL NOTES TO ACT SECOND.
(A) _----the man that was his bedfellow,_] So, Holinshed: "The said Lord
Scroop was in such favour with the king, that he admitted him sometimes
to be his _bedfellow_." The familiar appellation, of _bedfellow_, which
appears strange to us, was common among the ancient nobility. There is a
letter from the sixth Earl of Northumberland (still preserved in the
collection of the present duke), addressed "To his beloved cousin,
Thomas Arundel," &c., which begins "_Bedfellow_, after my most haste
recommendation." --_Steevens_.
This unseemly custom continued common till the middle of the last
century, if not later. Cromwell obtained much of his intelligence,
during the civil wars, from the mean men with whom he slept. --_Malone_.
After the battle of Dreux, 1562, the Prince of Conde slept in the same
bed with the Duke of Guise; an anecdote frequently cited, to show the
magnanimity of the latter, who slept soundly, though so near his
greatest enemy, then his prisoner. --_Nares._
(B) _For me,--the gold of France did not seduce;_] Holinshed observes,
"that Richard, Earl of Cambridge, did not conspire with the Lord Scroop
and Thomas Grey, for the murdering of King Henry to please the French
king, but only to the intent to exalt to the crown his brother-in-law
Edmund, Earl of March, as heir to Lionel, Duke of Clarence; after the
death of which Earl of March, for divers secret impediments not able to
have issue, the Earl of Cambridge was sure that the crown should come to
him by his wife, and to his children of her begotten; and therefore (as
was thought), he rather confessed himself for need of money to be
corrupted by the French king, than he would declare his inward mind,
&c., which if it were espied, he saw plainly that the Earl of March
should have tasted of the same cup that he had drunk, and what should
have come to his own children he merely doubted, &c."
A million of gold is stated to have been given by France to the
conspirators.
Historians have, however, generally expressed their utter inability to
explain upon what grounds the conspirators built their expectation of
success; and unless they had been promised powerful assistance from
France, the design seems to have been one of the most absurd and
hopeless upon record. The confession of the Earl of Cambridge, and his
supplication for mercy in his own hand writing, is in the British
Museum.
(C) _Touching our person, seek we no revenge;_] This speech is taken
from Holinshed:--
"Revenge herein touching my person, though I seek not; yet for the
safeguard of my dear friends, and for due preservation of all sorts,
I am by office to cause example to be showed: Get ye hence, therefore,
you poor miserable wretches, to the receiving of your just reward,
wherein God's majesty give you grace of his mercy, and repentance of
your heinous offences."
