   Othel. 'Tis well I am found by you:
I will but spend a word here in the house,
And goe with you
   Cassio. Aunciant, what makes he heere?
  Iago. Faith, he to night hath boarded a Land Carract,
If it proue lawfull prize, he's made for euer
   Cassio. I do not vnderstand
   Iago. He's married
   Cassio. To who?
  Iago. Marry to- Come Captaine, will you go?
  Othel. Haue with you
   Cassio. Here comes another Troope to seeke for you.
Enter Brabantio, Rodorigo, with Officers, and Torches.
  Iago. It is Brabantio: Generall be aduis'd,
He comes to bad intent
   Othello. Holla, stand there
   Rodo. Signior, it is the Moore
   Bra. Downe with him, Theefe
   Iago. You, Rodorigo? Come Sir, I am for you
   Othe. Keepe vp your bright Swords, for the dew will
rust them. Good Signior, you shall more command with
yeares, then with your Weapons
   Bra. Oh thou foule Theefe,
Where hast thou stow'd my Daughter?
Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchaunted her
For Ile referre me to all things of sense,
(If she in Chaines of Magick were not bound)
Whether a Maid, so tender, Faire, and Happie,
So opposite to Marriage, that she shun'd
The wealthy curled Deareling of our Nation,
Would euer haue (t' encurre a generall mocke)
Run from her Guardage to the sootie bosome,
Of such a thing as thou: to feare, not to delight?
Iudge me the world, if 'tis not grosse in sense,
That thou hast practis'd on her with foule Charmes,
Abus'd her delicate Youth, with Drugs or Minerals,
That weakens Motion. Ile haue't disputed on,
'Tis probable, and palpable to thinking;
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee,
For an abuser of the World, a practiser
Of Arts inhibited, and out of warrant;
Lay hold vpon him, if he do resist
Subdue him, at his perill
   Othe. Hold your hands
Both you of my inclining, and the rest.
Were it my Cue to fight, I should haue knowne it
Without a Prompter. Whether will you that I goe
To answere this your charge?
  Bra. To Prison, till fit time
Of Law, and course of direct Session
Call thee to answer
   Othe. What if I do obey?
How may the Duke be therewith satisfi'd,
Whose Messengers are heere about my side,
Vpon some present businesse of the State,
To bring me to him
   Officer. 'Tis true most worthy Signior,
The Dukes in Counsell, and your Noble selfe,
I am sure is sent for
   Bra. How? The Duke in Counsell?
In this time of the night? Bring him away;
Mine's not an idle Cause. The Duke himselfe,
Or any of my Brothers of the State,
Cannot but feele this wrong, as 'twere their owne:
For if such Actions may haue passage free,
Bond-slaues, and Pagans shall our Statesmen be.
Exeunt.
Scaena Tertia.
Enter Duke, Senators, and Officers.
  Duke. There's no composition in this Newes,
That giues them Credite
   1.Sen. Indeed, they are disproportioned;
My Letters say, a Hundred and seuen Gallies
