STEPH. If thou beest Trinculo, come forth: I'll pull thee by the
lesser legs: if any be Trinculo's legs, these are they. Thou art very
Trinculo indeed! How camest thou here?
TRIN. I took him to be killed with a thunder-stroke. But art thou
not drowned, Stephano? I hope now thou art not drowned. Is the storm
overblown? I hid me under the dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of
the storm. And art thou living, Stephano? O Stephano, two Neapolitans
'scaped.
STEPH. Prithee, do not turn me about; my stomach is not constant.
    CAL. [_aside._] These be fine things, an if they be not sprites.
    That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor.
    I will kneel to him.
STEPH. How didst thou 'scape? How camest thou hither? swear by this
bottle how thou camest hither. I escaped upon a butt of sack which the
sailors heaved o'erboard, by this bottle which I made of the bark of a
tree with mine own hands since I was cast ashore.
CAL. I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject; for the liquor
is not earthly.
STEPH. Here; swear then how thou escapedst.
TRIN. Swum ashore, man, like a duck: I can swim like a duck, I'll be
sworn.
STEPH. Here, kiss the book. Though thou canst swim like a duck, thou
art made like a goose.
TRIN. O Stephano, hast any more of this?
STEPH. The whole butt, man: my cellar is in a rock by the sea-side
where my wine is hid. How now, moon-calf! how does thine ague?
CAL. Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven?
STEPH. Out o' the moon, I do assure thee: I was the man i' the moon
when time was.
    CAL. I have seen thee in her and I do adore thee: My mistress
    show'd me thee and thy dog and thy bush.
STEPH. Come, swear to that: kiss the book: I will furnish it anon with
new contents: swear.
TRIN. By this good light, this is a very shallow monster! I afeard of
him! A very weak monster! The man i' the moon! A most poor credulous
monster! Well drawn, monster, in good sooth!
    CAL. I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island;
    And I will kiss thy foot: I prithee, be my god.
TRIN. By this light, a most perfidious and drunken monster! when's
god's asleep, he'll rob his bottle.
CAL. I'll kiss thy foot; I'll swear myself thy subject.
STEPH. Come on then; down, and swear.
TRIN. I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster. A
most scurvy monster! I could find in my heart to beat him,--
STEPH. Come, kiss.
TRIN. But that the poor monster's in drink: an abominable monster!
    CAL. I'll show thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee berries;
    I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough.
    A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!
    I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,
    Thou wondrous man.
TRIN. A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a poor drunkard!
