    PROS.                  Ariel, thy charge
    Exactly is perform'd: but there's more work.
    What is the time o' the day?
    ARI.                   Past the mid season.
    PROS. At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now
    Must by us both be spent most preciously.
    ARI. Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
    Let me remember thee what thou hast promised,
    Which is not yet perform'd me.
    PROS.                  How now? moody?
    What is't thou canst demand?
    ARI.                   My liberty.
    PROS. Before the time be out? no more!
    ARI.                   I prithee,
    Remember I have done thee worthy service;
    Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served
    Without or grudge or grumblings: thou didst promise
    To bate me a full year.
    PROS.                  Dost thou forget
    From what a torment I did free thee?
    ARI.                   No.
    PROS. Thou dost, and think'st it much to tread the ooze
    Of the salt deep,
    To run upon the sharp wind of the north,
    To do me business in the veins o' the earth
    When it is baked with frost.
    ARI.                   I do not, sir.
    PROS. Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot
    The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
    Was grown into a hoop? hast thou forgot her?
    ARI. No, sir.
    PROS. Thou hast. Where was she born? speak; tell me.
    ARI. Sir, in Argier.
[Illustration:
    PROSPERO:  '_And by my prescience
      I find my zenith doth depend upon
      A most auspicious star_' (page 21).]
    PROS.                  O, was she so? I must
    Once in a month recount what thou hast been,
    Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
    For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible
    To enter human hearing, from Argier,
    Thou know'st, was banish'd: for one thing she did
    They would not take her life. Is not this true?
    ARI. Ay, sir.
    PROS. This blue-ey'd hag was hither brought with child
    And here was left by the sailors. Thou, my slave,
    As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant;
    And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
    To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands,
    Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee,
    By help of her more potent ministers
    And in her most unmitigable rage,
    Into a cloven pine; within which rift
    Imprison'd thou didst painfully remain
    A dozen years; within which space she died
    And left thee there; where thou didst vent thy groans
    As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island--
    Save for the son that she did litter here,
    A freckled whelp hag-born--not honour'd with
    A human shape.
    ARI.                   Yes, Caliban her son.
    PROS. Dull thing, I say so; he that Caliban
    Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
    What torment I did find thee in; thy groans
    Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts
    Of ever angry bears: it was a torment
    To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
    Could not again undo: it was mine art,
    When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape
    The pine and let thee out.
    ARI.                   I thank thee, master.
