SCENE II
_Another part of the island._
_Enter_ CALIBAN, STEPHANO, _and_ TRINCULO.
STEPH. Tell not me; when the butt is out, we will drink water; not a
drop before: therefore bear up, and board 'em. Servant-monster, drink
to me.
TRIN. Servant-monster! the folly of this island! They say there's but
five upon this isle: we are three of them; if th' other two be brained
like us, the state totters.
STEPH. Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee: thy eyes are almost set
in thy head.
TRIN. Where should they be set else? he were a brave monster indeed, if
they were set in his tail.
STEPH. My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in sack: for my part, the
sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere I could recover the shore, five and
thirty leagues off and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
monster, or my standard.
TRIN. Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.
STEPH. We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
TRIN. Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet say nothing
neither.
STEPH. Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a good
moon-calf.
    CAL. How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
    I'll not serve him; he is not valiant.
TRIN. Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case to justle a
constable. Why, thou deboshed fish, thou, was there ever man a coward
that hath drunk so much sack as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous
lie, being but half a fish and half a monster?
CAL. Lo, how he mocks me! wilt thou let him, my lord?
TRIN. 'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such a natural!
CAL. Lo, lo, again! bite him to death, I prithee.
STEPH. Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head: if you prove a
mutineer,--the next tree! The poor monster's my subject and he shall
not suffer indignity.
CAL. I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again
to the suit I made to thee?
STEPH. Marry, will I: kneel and repeat it; I will stand, and so shall
Trinculo.
_Enter_ ARIEL, _invisible_.
CAL. As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant, a sorcerer, that
by his cunning hath cheated me of the island.
ARI. Thou liest.
    CAL. Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou:
    I would my valiant master would destroy thee!
    I do not lie.
STEPH. Trinculo, if you trouble him anymore in's tale, by this hand, I
will supplant some of your teeth.
TRIN. Why, I said nothing.
STEPH. Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
    CAL. I say, by sorcery he got this isle;
    From me he got it. If thy greatness will
    Revenge it on him,--for I know thou darest,
    But this thing dare not,--
    STEPH. That's most certain.
CAL. Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee.
STEPH. How now shall this be compassed? Canst thou bring me to the
party?
    CAL. Yea, yea, my lord: I'll yield him thee asleep,
    Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head.
