Enter.
Scoena Secunda.
Enter Caliban, Stephano, and Trinculo.
  Ste. Tell not me, when the But is out we will drinke
water, not a drop before; therefore beare vp, & boord
em' Seruant Monster, drinke to me
   Trin. Seruant Monster? the folly of this Iland, they
say there's but fiue vpon this Isle; we are three of them,
if th' other two be brain'd like vs, the State totters
   Ste. Drinke seruant Monster when I bid thee, thy
eies are almost set in thy head
   Trin. Where should they bee set else? hee were a
braue Monster indeede if they were set in his taile
   Ste. My man-Monster hath drown'd his tongue in
sacke: for my part the Sea cannot drowne mee, I swam
ere I could recouer the shore, fiue and thirtie Leagues
off and on, by this light thou shalt bee my Lieutenant
Monster, or my Standard
   Trin. Your Lieutenant if you list, hee's no standard
   Ste. Weel not run Monsieur Monster
   Trin. Nor go neither: but you'l lie like dogs, and yet
say nothing neither
   Ste. Moone-calfe, speak once in thy life, if thou beest
a good Moone-calfe
   Cal. How does thy honour? Let me licke thy shooe:
Ile not serue him, he is not valiant
   Trin. Thou liest most ignorant Monster, I am in case
to iustle a Constable: why, thou debosh'd Fish thou,
was there euer man a Coward, that hath drunk so much
Sacke as I to day? wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being
but halfe a Fish, and halfe a Monster?
  Cal. Loe, how he mockes me, wilt thou let him my
Lord?
  Trin. Lord, quoth he? that a Monster should be such
a Naturall?
  Cal. Loe, loe againe: bite him to death I prethee
   Ste. Trinculo, keepe a good tongue in your head: If
you proue a mutineere, the next Tree: the poore Monster's
my subiect, and he shall not suffer indignity
   Cal. I thanke my noble Lord. Wilt thou be pleas'd
to hearken once againe to the suite I made to thee?
  Ste. Marry will I: kneele, and repeate it,
I will stand, and so shall Trinculo.
Enter Ariell inuisible.
  Cal. As I told thee before, I am subiect to a Tirant,
A Sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me
Of the Island
   Ariell. Thou lyest
   Cal. Thou lyest, thou iesting Monkey thou:
I would my valiant Master would destroy thee.
I do not lye
   Ste. Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale,
By this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth
   Trin. Why, I said nothing
   Ste. Mum then, and no more: proceed
   Cal. I say by Sorcery he got this Isle
From me, he got it. If thy Greatnesse will
Reuenge it on him, (for I know thou dar'st)
But this Thing dare not
   Ste. That's most certaine
   Cal. Thou shalt be Lord of it, and Ile serue thee
   Ste. How now shall this be compast?
Canst thou bring me to the party?
  Cal. Yea, yea my Lord, Ile yeeld him thee asleepe,
Where thou maist knocke a naile into his head
