Be this as it may, there is no doubt that Shakespeare knew the whole
height and compass of Caesar's vast and varied capacity. It may be
regretted that he did not render him as he evidently saw him, inasmuch
as he alone, perhaps, of all the men who ever wrote could have given an
adequate expression of that colossal man.
It is possible that the policy of the drama may have been to represent
Caesar not as he was indeed, but as he must have appeared to the
conspirators; to make us see him as they saw him, in order that they too
might have fair and equal judgment at our hands. For Caesar was
literally too great to be seen by them, save as children often see
bugbears by moonlight, when their inexperienced eyes are mocked with
air. And Shakespeare may well have judged that the best way to set us
right towards them was by identifying us more or less with them in
mental position, and making us share somewhat in their delusion. For
there is scarce anything wherein we are so apt to err as in reference to
the characters of men, when time has settled and cleared up the
questions in which they lost their way: we blame them for not having
seen as we see; while in truth the things that are so bathed in light to
us were full of darkness to them, and we should have understood them
better, had we been in the dark along with them.
Caesar, indeed, was not bewildered by the political questions of his
time; but all the rest were, and therefore he seemed so to them; and
while their own heads were swimming they naturally ascribed his seeming
bewilderment to a dangerous intoxication. As for his marvelous career of
success, they attributed this mainly to his good luck, such being the
common refuge of inferior minds when they would escape the sense of
their inferiority. Hence, as generally happens with the highest order of
men, his greatness had to wait the approval of later events. He indeed,
far beyond any other man of his age, "looked into the seeds of time";
but this was not, and could not be known, till time had developed those
seeds into their fruits. Why then may not Shakespeare's idea have been
so to order things that the full strength of the man should not appear
in the play, as it did not in fact, till after his fall? This view will
both explain and justify the strange disguise--a sort of falsetto
greatness--under which Caesar exhibits himself.
Now the seeming contradiction between Caesar as known and Caesar as
rendered by Shakespeare is what, more than anything else, perplexes.
But a very refined, subtile, and peculiar irony pervades this, more than
any other of Shakespeare's plays; not intended as such, indeed, by the
speakers, but a sort of historic irony,--the irony of Providence, so to
speak, or, if you please, of Fate; much the same as is implied in the
proverb, "A haughty spirit goeth before a fall." This irony crops out in
many places. Thus we have Caesar most blown with arrogance and godding
it in the loftiest style when the daggers of the assassins are on the
very point of leaping at him. So too, all along, we find Brutus most
confident in those very things where he is most at fault, or acting like
a man "most ignorant of what he's most assured"; as when he says that
"Antony can do no more than Caesar's arm when Caesar's head is off."
This, to be sure, is not meant ironically by him, but it is turned into
irony by the fact that Antony soon tears the cause of the conspirators
all to pieces with his tongue. But, indeed, this sort of honest guile
runs all through the piece as a perfusive and permeating efficacy. A
still better instance of it occurs just after the murder, when the
chiefs of the conspiracy are exulting in the transcendent virtue and
beneficence of their deed, and in its future stage celebrity; and
Cassius says,--
