ANALYSIS BY ACT AND SCENE[2]
[Footnote 1: For an interesting defense of the so-called 'dragging'
tendency and episodical character of the third scene of the fourth act,
see Professor A. C. Bradley's _Shakespearean Tragedy_, pp. 55-61.]
[Footnote 2: "It must be understood that a play can be analyzed into
very different schemes of plot. It must not be thought that one of these
schemes is right and the rest wrong; but the schemes will be better or
worse in proportion as--while of course representing correctly the facts
of the play--they bring out more or less of what ministers to our sense
of design."--Moulton.]
I. THE EXPOSITION, OR INTRODUCTION (TYING OF THE KNOT)
_Act I, Scene i._ The popularity of Caesar with the Roman mob and the
jealousy of the official classes--the two motive forces of the play--are
revealed. The fickleness of the mob is shown in a spirit of comedy; the
antagonism of Marullus and Flavius strikes the note of tragedy.
_Act I, Scene ii, 1-304._ The supreme characters are introduced, and in
their opening speeches each reveals his temperament and foreshadows the
part which he will play. The exposition of the situation is now
complete.
II. THE COMPLICATION, RISING ACTION, OR GROWTH (TYING OF THE KNOT)
_Act I, Scene ii, 305-319._ In soliloquy Cassius unfolds his scheme for
entangling Brutus in the conspiracy, and the dramatic complication
begins.
_Act I, Scene iii._ Casca, excited by the fiery portents that bode
disaster to the state, is persuaded by Cassius to join "an enterprise of
honourable-dangerous consequence" (lines 123-124). The conspirators are
assigned to their various posts, and Cassius engages to secure Brutus
before morning.
_Act II, Scene i._ The humane character of Brutus, as master, husband,
and citizen, is elaborated, and his attitude to Caesar and
the conspiracy of assassination clearly shown. He joins the
conspirators--apparently their leader, in reality their tool. In
lines 162-183 he pleads that the life of Antony be spared, and thus
unconsciously prepares for his own ruin.
_Act II, Scene ii._ Caesar is uneasy at the omens and portents, and
gives heed to Calpurnia's entreaties to remain at home, but he yields to
the importunity of Decius and starts for the Capitol, thus advancing the
plans of the conspirators. The dramatic contrast between Caesar and
Brutus is strengthened by that between Calpurnia in this scene and
Portia in the preceding.
_Act II, Scene iii._ The dramatic interest is intensified by the warning
of Artemidorus and the suggestion of a way of escape for the
protagonist.
_Act II, Scene iv._ The interest is further intensified by the way in
which readers and spectators are made to share the anxiety of Portia.
III. THE CLIMAX, CRISIS, OR TURNING POINT (THE KNOT TIED)
_Act III, Scene i, 1-122._ The dramatic movement is now rapid, and the
tension, indicated by the short whispered sentences of all the speakers
except Caesar, is only increased by his imperial utterances, which show
utter unconsciousness of the impending doom. In the assassination all
the complicating forces--the self-confidence of Caesar, the unworldly
patriotism of Brutus, the political chicanery of Cassius, the
unscrupulousness of Casca, and the fickleness of the mob--bring about an
event which changes the lives of all the characters concerned and
threatens the stability of the Roman nation. The death of Caesar is the
climax of the physical action of the play; it is at the same time the
emotional crisis from which Brutus comes with altered destiny.
