HERMIONE.
                    Should a villain say so,
The most replenish'd villain in the world,
He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
Do but mistake.
LEONTES.
                You have mistook, my lady,
Polixenes for Leontes: O thou thing,
Which I'll not call a creature of thy place,
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
Should a like language use to all degrees,
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
Betwixt the prince and beggar!--I have said,
She's an adultress; I have said with whom:
More, she's a traitor; and Camillo is
A federary with her; and one that knows
What she should shame to know herself
But with her most vile principal, that she's
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
That vulgars give boldest titles; ay, and privy
To this their late escape.
HERMIONE.
                           No, by my life,
Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
When you shall come to clearer knowledge, that
You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
You scarce can right me throughly then, to say
You did mistake.
LEONTES.
                 No; if I mistake
In those foundations which I build upon,
The centre is not big enough to bear
A school-boy's top.--Away with her to prison!
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
But that he speaks.
HERMIONE.
                    There's some ill planet reigns:
I must be patient till the heavens look
With an aspect more favourable.--Good my lords,
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
Commonly are; the want of which vain dew
Perchance shall dry your pities; but I have
That honourable grief lodg'd here, which burns
Worse than tears drown: beseech you all, my lords,
With thoughts so qualified as your charities
Shall best instruct you, measure me;--and so
The king's will be perform'd!
LEONTES.
[To the GUARD.]               Shall I be heard?
HERMIONE.
Who is't that goes with me?--Beseech your highness
My women may be with me; for, you see,
My plight requires it.--Do not weep, good fools;
There is no cause: when you shall know your mistress
Has deserv'd prison, then abound in tears
As I come out: this action I now go on
Is for my better grace.--Adieu, my lord:
I never wish'd to see you sorry; now
I trust I shall.--My women, come; you have leave.
LEONTES.
Go, do our bidding; hence!
[Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies, with Guards.]
FIRST LORD.
Beseech your highness, call the queen again.
ANTIGONUS.
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice
Prove violence, in the which three great ones suffer,
Yourself, your queen, your son.
FIRST LORD.
                                For her, my lord,--
I dare my life lay down,--and will do't, sir,
Please you to accept it,--that the queen is spotless
I' the eyes of heaven and to you; I mean
In this which you accuse her.
ANTIGONUS.
                              If it prove
She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
I lodge my wife; I'll go in couples with her;
Than when I feel and see her no further trust her;
For every inch of woman in the world,
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh, is false,
If she be.
