Shakespeare's exactness in the minutest details of character is well
shown in the speech already referred to; which is the utterance of a man
philosophizing most unphilosophically; as if the Academy should betake
itself to the stump, and this too without any sense of the incongruity.
Plutarch has a short passage which served as a hint, not indeed for the
matter, but for the style of that speech. "They do note," says he, "in
some of his epistles that he counterfeited that brief compendious manner
of speech of the Lacedaemonians. As, when the war was begun, he wrote
unto the Pergamenians in this sort: 'I understand you have given
Dolabella money: if you have done it willingly, you confess you have
offended me; if against your wills, show it then by giving me
willingly.'... These were Brutus' manner of letters, which were honoured
for their briefness." The speech in question is far enough indeed from
being a model of style either for oratory or anything else, but it is
finely characteristic; while its studied primness and epigrammatic
finish contrast most unfavorably with the frank-hearted yet artful
eloquence of Antony.
And what a rare significance attaches to the brief scene of Brutus and
his drowsy boy Lucius in camp a little before the catastrophe! There, in
the deep of the night, long after all the rest have lost themselves in
sleep, and when the anxieties of the issue are crowding upon him,--there
we have the earnest, thoughtful Brutus hungering intensely for the
repasts of treasured thought.
  Look, Lucius, here's the book I sought for so;
  I put it in the pocket of my gown. [IV, iii, 252, 253.]
What the man is, and where he ought to be, is all signified in these two
lines. And do we not taste a dash of benignant irony in the implied
repugnance between the spirit of the man and the stuff of his present
undertaking? The idea of a bookworm riding the whirlwind of war! The
thing is most like Brutus; but how out of his element, how unsphered
from his right place, it shows him! There is a touch of drollery in the
contrast, which the richest steeping of poetry does not disguise. And
the irony is all the more delectable for being so remote and
unpronounced; like one of those choice arrangements in the background of
a painting, which, without attracting conscious notice, give a zest and
relish to what stands in front. The scene, whether for charm of
sentiment or felicity of conception, is one of the finest in
Shakespeare.
BRUTUS AND CASSIUS
The characters of Brutus and Cassius are nicely discriminated, scarce a
word falling from either but what smacks of the man. Cassius is much the
better conspirator, but much the worse man; and the better in that
because the worse in this. For Brutus engages in the conspiracy on
grounds of abstract and ideal justice; while Cassius holds it both a
wrong and a blunder to go about such a thing without making success his
first care. This, accordingly, is what he works for, being reckless of
all other considerations in his choice and use of means. Withal he is
more impulsive and quick than Brutus, because less under the
self-discipline of moral principle. His motives, too, are of a much more
mixed and various quality, because his habits of thinking and acting
have grown by the measures of experience; he studies to understand men
as they are; Brutus, as he thinks they ought to be. Hence, in every case
where Brutus crosses him, Brutus is wrong, and he is right,--right, that
is, if success be their aim. Cassius judges, and surely rightly, that
the end should give law to the means; and that "the honorable men whose
daggers have stabb'd Caesar" should not be hampered much with
conscientious scruples.
