   Foole. How do you Gentlemen?
  All. Gramercies good Foole:
How does your Mistris?
  Foole. She's e'ne setting on water to scal'd such Chickens
as you are. Would we could see you at Corinth
   Ape. Good, Gramercy.
Enter Page.
  Foole. Looke you, heere comes my Masters Page
   Page. Why how now Captaine? what do you in this
wise Company.
How dost thou Apermantus?
  Ape. Would I had a Rod in my mouth, that I might
answer thee profitably
   Boy. Prythee Apemantus reade me the superscription
of these Letters, I know not which is which
   Ape. Canst not read?
  Page. No
   Ape. There will litle Learning dye then that day thou
art hang'd. This is to Lord Timon, this to Alcibiades. Go
thou was't borne a Bastard, and thou't dye a Bawd
   Page. Thou was't whelpt a Dogge, and thou shalt
famish a Dogges death.
Answer not, I am gone.
Exit
  Ape. E'ne so thou out-runst Grace,
Foole I will go with you to Lord Timons
   Foole. Will you leaue me there?
  Ape. If Timon stay at home.
You three serue three Vsurers?
  All. I would they seru'd vs
   Ape. So would I:
As good a tricke as euer Hangman seru'd Theefe
   Foole. Are you three Vsurers men?
  All. I Foole
   Foole. I thinke no Vsurer, but ha's a Foole to his Seruant.
My Mistris is one, and I am her Foole: when men
come to borrow of your Masters, they approach sadly,
and go away merry: but they enter my Masters house
merrily, and go away sadly. The reason of this?
  Var. I could render one
   Ap. Do it then, that we may account thee a Whoremaster,
and a Knaue, which notwithstanding thou shalt
be no lesse esteemed
   Varro. What is a Whoremaster Foole?
  Foole. A Foole in good cloathes, and something like
thee. 'Tis a spirit, sometime t' appeares like a Lord, somtime
like a Lawyer, sometime like a Philosopher, with
two stones moe then's artificiall one. Hee is verie often
like a Knight; and generally, in all shapes that man goes
vp and downe in, from fourescore to thirteen, this spirit
walkes in
   Var. Thou art not altogether a Foole
   Foole. Nor thou altogether a Wise man,
As much foolerie as I haue, so much wit thou lack'st
   Ape. That answer might haue become Apemantus
   All. Aside, aside, heere comes Lord Timon.
Enter Timon and Steward.
  Ape. Come with me (Foole) come
   Foole. I do not alwayes follow Louer, elder Brother,
and Woman, sometime the Philosopher
   Stew. Pray you walke neere,
Ile speake with you anon.
Exeunt.
  Tim. You make me meruell wherefore ere this time
Had you not fully laide my state before me,
That I might so haue rated my expence
As I had leaue of meanes
   Stew. You would not heare me:
At many leysures I propose
   Tim. Go too:
Perchance some single vantages you tooke,
When my indisposition put you backe,
And that vnaptnesse made your minister
Thus to excuse your selfe
   Stew. O my good Lord,
At many times I brought in my accompts,
Laid them before you, you would throw them off,
And say you sound them in mine honestie,
When for some trifling present you haue bid me
Returne so much, I haue shooke my head, and wept:
Yea 'gainst th' Authoritie of manners, pray'd you
To hold your hand more close: I did indure
Not sildome, nor no slight checkes, when I haue
Prompted you in the ebbe of your estate,
And your great flow of debts; my lou'd Lord,
Though you heare now (too late) yet nowes a time,
The greatest of your hauing, lackes a halfe,
To pay your present debts
