   Ti. And shall! What villaine was it spake that word?
  Titus sonne speakes. He that would vouch'd it in any place but
heere
   Tit. What would you bury him in my despight?
  Mar. No Noble Titus, but intreat of thee,
To pardon Mutius, and to bury him
   Tit. Marcus, Euen thou hast stroke vpon my Crest,
And with these Boyes mine Honour thou hast wounded,
My foes I doe repute you euery one.
So trouble me no more, but get you gone
   1.Sonne. He is not himselfe, let vs withdraw
   2.Sonne. Not I tell Mutius bones be buried.
The Brother and the sonnes kneele.
  Mar. Brother, for in that name doth nature plea'd
   2.Sonne. Father, and in that name doth nature speake
   Tit. Speake thou no more if all the rest will speede
   Mar. Renowned Titus more then halfe my soule
   Luc. Deare Father, soule and substance of vs all
   Mar. Suffer thy brother Marcus to interre
His Noble Nephew heere in vertues nest,
That died in Honour and Lauinia's cause.
Thou art a Romaine, be not barbarous:
The Greekes vpon aduise did bury Aiax
That slew himselfe: And Laertes sonne,
Did graciously plead for his Funerals:
Let not young Mutius then that was thy ioy,
Be bar'd his entrance heere
   Tit. Rise Marcus, rise,
The dismall'st day is this that ere I saw,
To be dishonored by my Sonnes in Rome:
Well, bury him, and bury me the next.
They put him in the Tombe.
  Luc. There lie thy bones sweet Mutius with thy friends.
Till we with Trophees do adorne thy Tombe.
They all kneele and say.
No man shed teares for Noble Mutius,
He liues in Fame, that di'd in vertues cause.
Enter.
  Mar. My Lord to step out of these sudden dumps,
How comes it that the subtile Queene of Gothes,
Is of a sodaine thus aduanc'd in Rome?
  Ti. I know not Marcus: but I know it is,
(Whether by deuise or no) the heauens can tell,
Is she not then beholding to the man,
That brought her for this high good turne so farre?
Yes, and will Nobly him remunerate.
Flourish.
Enter the Emperor, Tamora, and her two sons, with the Moore at
one doore.
Enter at the other doore Bassianus and Lauinia with others.
  Sat. So Bassianus, you haue plaid your prize,
God giue you ioy sir of your Gallant Bride
   Bass. And you of yours my Lord: I say no more,
Nor wish no lesse, and so I take my leaue
   Sat. Traytor, if Rome haue law, or we haue power,
Thou and thy Faction shall repent this Rape
   Bass. Rape call you it my Lord, to cease my owne,
My true betrothed Loue, and now my wife?
But let the lawes of Rome determine all,
Meane while I am possest of that is mine
   Sat. 'Tis good sir: you are very short with vs,
But if we liue, weele be as sharpe with you
   Bass. My Lord, what I haue done as best I may,
Answere I must, and shall do with my life,
Onely thus much I giue your Grace to know,
By all the duties that I owe to Rome,
This Noble Gentleman Lord Titus heere,
Is in opinion and in honour wrong'd,
That in the rescue of Lauinia,
With his owne hand did slay his youngest Son,
In zeale to you, and highly mou'd to wrath.
To be controul'd in that he frankly gaue:
Receiue him then to fauour Saturnine,
That hath expre'st himselfe in all his deeds,
A Father and a friend to thee, and Rome
