   Lu. Sweet Father cease your teares, for at your griefe
See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps
   Mar. Patience deere Neece, good Titus drie thine
eyes
   Ti. Ah Marcus, Marcus, Brother well I wot,
Thy napkin cannot drinke a teare of mine,
For thou poore man hast drown'd it with thine owne
   Lu. Ah my Lauinia I will wipe thy cheekes
   Ti. Marke Marcus marke, I vnderstand her signes,
Had she a tongue to speake, now would she say
That to her brother which I said to thee.
His Napkin with her true teares all bewet,
Can do no seruice on her sorrowfull cheekes.
Oh what a simpathy of woe is this!
As farre from helpe as Limbo is from blisse,
Enter Aron the Moore alone.
  Moore. Titus Andronicus, my Lord the Emperour,
Sends thee this word, that if thou loue thy sonnes,
Let Marcus, Lucius, or thy selfe old Titus,
Or any one of you, chop off your hand,
And send it to the King: he for the same,
Will send thee hither both thy sonnes aliue,
And that shall be the ransome for their fault
   Ti. Oh gracious Emperour, oh gentle Aaron.
Did euer Rauen sing so like a Larke,
That giues sweet tydings of the Sunnes vprise?
With all my heart, Ile send the Emperour my hand,
Good Aron wilt thou help to chop it off?
  Lu. Stay Father, for that noble hand of thine,
That hath throwne downe so many enemies,
Shall not be sent: my hand will serue the turne,
My youth can better spare my blood then you,
And therfore mine shall saue my brothers liues
   Mar. Which of your hands hath not defended Rome,
And rear'd aloft the bloody Battleaxe,
Writing destruction on the enemies Castle?
Oh none of both but are of high desert:
My hand hath bin but idle, let it serue
To ransome my two nephewes from their death,
Then haue I kept it to a worthy end
   Moore. Nay come agree, whose hand shall goe along
For feare they die before their pardon come
   Mar. My hand shall goe
   Lu. By heauen it shall not goe
   Ti. Sirs striue no more, such withered hearbs as these
Are meete for plucking vp, and therefore mine
   Lu. Sweet Father, if I shall be thought thy sonne,
Let me redeeme my brothers both from death
   Mar. And for our fathers sake, and mothers care,
Now let me shew a brothers loue to thee
   Ti. Agree betweene you, I will spare my hand
   Lu. Then Ile goe fetch an Axe
   Mar. But I will vse the Axe.
Exeunt.
  Ti. Come hither Aaron, Ile deceiue them both,
Lend me thy hand, and I will giue thee mine,
  Moore. If that be cal'd deceit, I will be honest,
And neuer whil'st I liue deceiue men so:
But Ile deceiue you in another sort,
And that you'l say ere halfe an houre passe.
He cuts off Titus hand.
Enter Lucius and Marcus againe.
  Ti. Now stay your strife, what shall be, is dispatcht:
Good Aron giue his Maiestie my hand,
Tell him, it was a hand that warded him
From thousand dangers: bid him bury it:
More hath it merited: That let it haue.
As for my sonnes, say I account of them,
As iewels purchast at an easie price,
And yet deere too, because I bought mine owne
