Exit
  Fab. I will not giue my part of this sport for a pension
of thousands to be paid from the Sophy
   To. I could marry this wench for this deuice
   An. So could I too
   To. And aske no other dowry with her, but such another
iest.
Enter Maria.
  An. Nor I neither
   Fab. Heere comes my noble gull catcher
   To. Wilt thou set thy foote o'my necke
   An. Or o'mine either?
  To. Shall I play my freedome at tray-trip, and becom
thy bondslaue?
  An. Ifaith, or I either?
  Tob. Why, thou hast put him in such a dreame, that
when the image of it leaues him, he must run mad
   Ma. Nay but say true, do's it worke vpon him?
  To. Like Aqua vite with a Midwife
   Mar. If you will then see the fruites of the sport, mark
his first approach before my Lady: hee will come to her
in yellow stockings, and 'tis a colour she abhorres, and
crosse garter'd, a fashion shee detests: and hee will smile
vpon her, which will now be so vnsuteable to her disposition,
being addicted to a melancholly, as shee is, that it
cannot but turn him into a notable contempt: if you wil
see it follow me
   To. To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent diuell
of wit
   And. Ile make one too.
Exeunt.
Finis Actus secundus
Actus Tertius, Scaena prima.
Enter Viola and Clowne.
  Vio. Saue thee Friend and thy Musick: dost thou liue
by thy Tabor?
  Clo. No sir, I liue by the Church
   Vio. Art thou a Churchman?
  Clo. No such matter sir, I do liue by the Church: For,
I do liue at my house, and my house dooth stand by the
Church
   Vio. So thou maist say the Kings lyes by a begger, if a
begger dwell neer him: or the Church stands by thy Tabor,
if thy Tabor stand by the Church
   Clo. You haue said sir: To see this age: A sentence is
but a cheu'rill gloue to a good witte, how quickely the
wrong side may be turn'd outward
   Vio. Nay that's certaine: they that dally nicely with
words, may quickely make them wanton
   Clo. I would therefore my sister had had no name Sir
   Vio. Why man?
  Clo. Why sir, her names a word, and to dallie with
that word, might make my sister wanton: But indeede,
words are very Rascals, since bonds disgrac'd them
   Vio. Thy reason man?
  Clo. Troth sir, I can yeeld you none without wordes,
and wordes are growne so false, I am loath to proue reason
with them
   Vio. I warrant thou art a merry fellow, and car'st for
nothing
   Clo. Not so sir, I do care for something: but in my conscience
sir, I do not care for you: if that be to care for nothing
sir, I would it would make you inuisible
   Vio. Art not thou the Lady Oliuia's foole?
  Clo. No indeed sir, the Lady Oliuia has no folly, shee
will keepe no foole sir, till she be married, and fooles are
as like husbands, as Pilchers are to Herrings, the Husbands
the bigger, I am indeede not her foole, but hir corrupter
of words
