Scoena Tertia.
Enter Sir Toby, and Sir Andrew.
  To. Approach Sir Andrew: not to bee a bedde after
midnight, is to be vp betimes, and Deliculo surgere, thou
know'st
   And. Nay by my troth I know not: but I know, to
be vp late, is to be vp late
   To. A false conclusion: I hate it as an vnfill'd Canne.
To be vp after midnight, and to go to bed then is early:
so that to go to bed after midnight, is to goe to bed betimes.
Does not our liues consist of the foure Elements?
  And. Faith so they say, but I thinke it rather consists
of eating and drinking
   To. Th'art a scholler; let vs therefore eate and drinke
Marian I say, a stoope of wine.
Enter Clowne.
  And. Heere comes the foole yfaith
   Clo. How now my harts: Did you neuer see the Picture
of we three?
  To. Welcome asse, now let's haue a catch
   And. By my troth the foole has an excellent breast. I
had rather then forty shillings I had such a legge, and so
sweet a breath to sing, as the foole has. Insooth thou wast
in very gracious fooling last night, when thou spok'st of
Pigrogromitus, of the Vapians passing the Equinoctial of
Queubus: 'twas very good yfaith: I sent thee sixe pence
for thy Lemon, hadst it?
  Clo. I did impeticos thy gratillity: for Maluolios nose
is no Whip-stocke. My Lady has a white hand, and the
Mermidons are no bottle-ale houses
   An. Excellent: Why this is the best fooling, when
all is done. Now a song
   To. Come on, there is sixe pence for you. Let's haue
a song
   An. There's a testrill of me too: if one knight giue a
  Clo. Would you haue a loue-song, or a song of good
life?
  To. A loue song, a loue song
   An. I, I. I care not for good life
   Clowne sings .
O Mistris mine where are you roming?
O stay and heare, your true loues coming,
That can sing both high and low.
Trip no further prettie sweeting.
Iourneys end in louers meeting,
Euery wise mans sonne doth know
   An. Excellent good, ifaith
   To. Good, good
   Clo. What is loue, tis not heereafter,
Present mirth, hath present laughter:
What's to come, is still vnsure.
In delay there lies no plentie,
Then come kisse me sweet and twentie:
Youths a stuffe will not endure
   An. A mellifluous voyce, as I am true knight
   To. A contagious breath
   An. Very sweet, and contagious ifaith
   To. To heare by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion.
But shall we make the Welkin dance indeed? Shall wee
rowze the night-Owle in a Catch, that will drawe three
soules out of one Weauer? Shall we do that?
  And. And you loue me, let's doo't: I am dogge at a
Catch
   Clo. Byrlady sir, and some dogs will catch well
   An. Most certaine: Let our Catch be, Thou Knaue
   Clo. Hold thy peace, thou Knaue knight. I shall be constrain'd
in't, to call thee knaue, Knight
