   Seb. Do not then walke too open
   Ant. It doth not fit me: hold sir, here's my purse,
In the South Suburbes at the Elephant
Is best to lodge: I will bespeake our dyet,
Whiles you beguile the time, and feed your knowledge
With viewing of the Towne, there shall you haue me
   Seb. Why I your purse?
  Ant. Haply your eye shall light vpon some toy
You haue desire to purchase: and your store
I thinke is not for idle Markets, sir
   Seb. Ile be your purse-bearer, and leaue you
For an houre
   Ant. To th' Elephant
   Seb. I do remember.
Exeunt.
Scoena Quarta.
Enter Oliuia and Maria.
  Ol. I haue sent after him, he sayes hee'l come:
How shall I feast him? What bestow of him?
For youth is bought more oft, then begg'd, or borrow'd.
I speake too loud: Where's Maluolio, he is sad, and ciuill,
And suites well for a seruant with my fortunes,
Where is Maluolio?
  Mar. He's comming Madame:
But in very strange manner. He is sure possest Madam
   Ol. Why what's the matter, does he raue?
  Mar. No Madam, he does nothing but smile: your Ladyship
were best to haue some guard about you, if hee
come, for sure the man is tainted in's wits
   Ol. Go call him hither.
Enter Maluolio.
I am as madde as hee,
If sad and merry madnesse equall bee.
How now Maluolio?
  Mal. Sweet Lady, ho, ho
   Ol. Smil'st thou? I sent for thee vpon a sad occasion
   Mal. Sad Lady, I could be sad:
This does make some obstruction in the blood:
This crosse-gartering, but what of that?
If it please the eye of one, it is with me as the very true
Sonnet is: Please one, and please all
   Mal. Why how doest thou man?
What is the matter with thee?
  Mal. Not blacke in my minde, though yellow in my
legges: It did come to his hands, and Commaunds shall
be executed. I thinke we doe know the sweet Romane
hand
   Ol. Wilt thou go to bed Maluolio?
  Mal. To bed? I sweet heart, and Ile come to thee
   Ol. God comfort thee: Why dost thou smile so, and
kisse thy hand so oft?
  Mar. How do you Maluolio?
  Maluo. At your request:
Yes Nightingales answere Dawes
   Mar. Why appeare you with this ridiculous boldnesse
before my Lady
   Mal. Be not afraid of greatnesse: 'twas well writ
   Ol. What meanst thou by that Maluolio?
  Mal. Some are borne great
   Ol. Ha?
  Mal. Some atcheeue greatnesse
   Ol. What sayst thou?
  Mal. And some haue greatnesse thrust vpon them
   Ol. Heauen restore thee
   Mal. Remember who commended thy yellow stockings
   Ol. Thy yellow stockings?
  Mal. And wish'd to see thee crosse garter'd
   Ol. Crosse garter'd?
  Mal. Go too, thou art made, if thou desir'st to be so
   Ol. Am I made?
  Mal. If not, let me see thee a seruant still
   Ol. Why this is verie Midsommer madnesse.
Enter Seruant.
  Ser. Madame, the young Gentleman of the Count
Orsino's is return'd, I could hardly entreate him backe: he
attends your Ladyships pleasure
