  It strongly advised that the Butcher should be
    Conveyed in a separate ship:
  But the Bellman declared that would never agree
    With the plans he had made for the trip:
[Illustration: "THE BEAVER KEPT LOOKING THE OPPOSITE WAY"]
  Navigation was always a difficult art,
    Though with only one ship and one bell:
  And he feared he must really decline, for his part,
    Undertaking another as well.
  The Beaver's best course was, no doubt, to procure
    A second-hand dagger-proof coat--
  So the Baker advised it--and next, to insure
    Its life in some Office of note:
  This the Banker suggested, and offered for hire
    (On moderate terms), or for sale,
  Two excellent Policies, one Against Fire,
    And one Against Damage From Hail.
  Yet still, ever after that sorrowful day,
    Whenever the Butcher was by,
  The Beaver kept looking the opposite way,
    And appeared unaccountably shy.
Fit the Second.
_THE BELLMAN'S SPEECH._
  The Bellman himself they all praised to the skies--
    Such a carriage, such ease and such grace!
  Such solemnity, too! One could see he was wise,
    The moment one looked in his face!
  He had bought a large map representing the sea,
    Without the least vestige of land:
  And the crew were much pleased when they found it to be
    A map they could all understand.
  "What's the good of Mercator's North Poles and Equators,
    Tropics, Zones, and Meridian Lines?"
  So the Bellman would cry: and the crew would reply
    "They are merely conventional signs!
[Illustration: OCEAN-CHART.]
  "Other maps are such shapes, with their islands and capes!
    But we've got our brave Captain to thank"
  (So the crew would protest) "that he's bought _us_ the best--
    A perfect and absolute blank!"
  This was charming, no doubt: but they shortly found out
    That the Captain they trusted so well
  Had only one notion for crossing the ocean,
    And that was to tingle his bell.
  He was thoughtful and grave--but the orders he gave
    Were enough to bewilder a crew.
  When he cried "Steer to starboard, but keep her head larboard!"
    What on earth was the helmsman to do?
  Then the bowsprit got mixed with the rudder sometimes:
    A thing, as the Bellman remarked,
  That frequently happens in tropical climes,
    When a vessel is, so to speak, "snarked."
  But the principal failing occurred in the sailing,
    And the Bellman, perplexed and distressed,
  Said he _had_ hoped, at least, when the wind blew due East,
    That the ship would _not_ travel due West!
  But the danger was past--they had landed at last,
    With their boxes, portmanteaus, and bags:
  Yet at first sight the crew were not pleased with the view
    Which consisted of chasms and crags.
  The Bellman perceived that their spirits were low,
    And repeated in musical tone
  Some jokes he had kept for a season of woe--
    But the crew would do nothing but groan.
  He served out some grog with a liberal hand,
    And bade them sit down on the beach:
  And they could not but own that their Captain looked grand,
    As he stood and delivered his speech.
