And now, a terrible deed was done in England, the like of which was never
done on English ground before or since.  On the thirteenth of November,
in pursuance of secret instructions sent by the King over the whole
country, the inhabitants of every town and city armed, and murdered all
the Danes who were their neighbours.
Young and old, babies and soldiers, men and women, every Dane was killed.
No doubt there were among them many ferocious men who had done the
English great wrong, and whose pride and insolence, in swaggering in the
houses of the English and insulting their wives and daughters, had become
unbearable; but no doubt there were also among them many peaceful
Christian Danes who had married English women and become like English
men.  They were all slain, even to GUNHILDA, the sister of the King of
Denmark, married to an English lord; who was first obliged to see the
murder of her husband and her child, and then was killed herself.
When the King of the sea-kings heard of this deed of blood, he swore that
he would have a great revenge.  He raised an army, and a mightier fleet
of ships than ever yet had sailed to England; and in all his army there
was not a slave or an old man, but every soldier was a free man, and the
son of a free man, and in the prime of life, and sworn to be revenged
upon the English nation, for the massacre of that dread thirteenth of
November, when his countrymen and countrywomen, and the little children
whom they loved, were killed with fire and sword.  And so, the sea-kings
came to England in many great ships, each bearing the flag of its own
commander.  Golden eagles, ravens, dragons, dolphins, beasts of prey,
threatened England from the prows of those ships, as they came onward
through the water; and were reflected in the shining shields that hung
upon their sides.  The ship that bore the standard of the King of the sea-
kings was carved and painted like a mighty serpent; and the King in his
anger prayed that the Gods in whom he trusted might all desert him, if
his serpent did not strike its fangs into England's heart.
And indeed it did.  For, the great army landing from the great fleet,
near Exeter, went forward, laying England waste, and striking their
lances in the earth as they advanced, or throwing them into rivers, in
token of their making all the island theirs.  In remembrance of the black
November night when the Danes were murdered, wheresoever the invaders
came, they made the Saxons prepare and spread for them great feasts; and
when they had eaten those feasts, and had drunk a curse to England with
wild rejoicings, they drew their swords, and killed their Saxon
entertainers, and marched on.  For six long years they carried on this
war: burning the crops, farmhouses, barns, mills, granaries; killing the
labourers in the fields; preventing the seed from being sown in the
ground; causing famine and starvation; leaving only heaps of ruin and
smoking ashes, where they had found rich towns.  To crown this misery,
English officers and men deserted, and even the favourites of Ethelred
the Unready, becoming traitors, seized many of the English ships, turned
pirates against their own country, and aided by a storm occasioned the
loss of nearly the whole English navy.
