"Not going back again?" said the poor little anxious Child of the
Marshalsea, always calculating and planning for Tip, in the front rank
of her charges.
"I am so tired of it," said Tip, "that I have cut it."
Tip tired of everything. With intervals of Marshalsea lounging, and
errand-running, his small second mother, aided by her trusty friend, got
him into a warehouse, into a market garden, into the hop trade, into the
law again, into an auctioneer's, into a brewery, into a stockbroker's,
into the law again, into a coach office, into a wagon office, into the
law again, into a general dealer's, into a distillery, into the law
again, into a wool house, into a dry goods house, into the fish-market,
into the foreign fruit trade, and into the docks. But whatever Tip went
into he came out of tired, announcing that he had cut it. Wherever he
went, this useless Tip appeared to take the prison walls with him, and
to set them up in such trade or calling; and to prowl about within their
narrow limits in the old slipshod, purposeless, down-at-heel way; until
the real immovable Marshalsea walls asserted their power over him and
brought him back.
Nevertheless, the brave little creature did so fix her heart on her
brother's rescue that, while he was ringing out these doleful changes,
she pinched and scraped enough together to ship him for Canada. When he
was tired of nothing to do, and disposed in its turn to cut even that,
he graciously consented to go to Canada. And there was grief in her
bosom over parting with him, and joy in the hope of his being put in a
straight course at last.
"God bless you, dear Tip. Don't be too proud to come and see us, when
you have made your fortune."
"All right!" said Tip, and went.
But not all the way to Canada; in fact, not further than Liverpool.
After making the voyage to that port from London, he found himself so
strongly impelled to cut the vessel, that he resolved to walk back
again. Carrying out which intention, he presented himself before her at
the expiration of a month, in rags, without shoes, and much more tired
than ever.
At length, after another period of running errands, he found a pursuit
for himself, and announced it.
"Amy, I have got a situation."
"Have you really and truly, Tip?"
"All right. I shall do now. You needn't look anxious about me any more,
old girl."
"What is it, Tip?"
"Why, you know Slingo by sight?"
"Not the man they call the dealer?"
"That's the chap. He'll be out on Monday, and he's going to give me a
berth."
"What is he a dealer in, Tip?"
"Horses. All right! I shall do now, Amy."
She lost sight of him for months afterwards, and only heard from him
once. A whisper passed among the elder prisoners that he had been seen
at a mock auction in Moorfields, pretending to buy plated articles for
real silver, and paying for them with the greatest liberality in
bank-notes; but it never reached her ears. One evening she was alone at
work--standing up at the window, to save the twilight lingering above
the wall--when he opened the door and walked in.
