"'Is there anything you want just at present, sir?' says Cobbs, mortally
ashamed of himself.
"'We would like some cakes after dinner,' answered Master Harry, folding
his arms, putting out one leg, and looking straight at him, 'and two
apples--and jam. With dinner, we should like to have toast and water.
But Norah has always been accustomed to half a glass of currant wine at
dessert. And so have I.'
"'It shall be ordered at the bar, sir,' says Cobbs, and away he went.
"'The way in which the women of that house--without exception--everyone
of 'em--married and single, took to that boy when they heard the story,
Boots considers surprising. It was as much as he could do to keep 'em
from dashing into the room and kissing him. They climbed up all sorts of
places, at the risk of their lives, to look at him through a pane of
glass. They were seven deep at the key-hole. They were out of their
minds about him and his bold spirit.
"In the evening Boots went into the room, to see how the runaway couple
was getting on. The gentleman was on the window-seat, supporting the
lady in his arms. She had tears upon her face, and was lying, very tired
and half-asleep, with her head upon his shoulder.
"'Mrs. Harry Walmers, Jr., tired, sir?' says Cobbs.
"'Yes, she is tired, Cobbs; but she is not used to be away from home,
and she has been in low spirits again. Cobbs, do you think you could
bring a biffin, please?'
"'I ask your pardon, sir,' says Cobbs. 'What was it you--'
"'I think a Norfolk biffin[B] would rouse her, Cobbs. She is very fond
of them.'
"Boots withdrew in search of the required restorative, and, when he
brought it in, the gentleman handed it to the lady, and fed her with a
spoon, and took a little himself. The lady being heavy with sleep, and
rather cross. 'What should you think, sir,' says Cobbs, 'of a chamber
candlestick?' The gentleman approved; the chambermaid went first, up the
great staircase; the lady, in her sky-blue mantle, followed, gallantly
led by the gentleman; the gentleman kissed her at the door, and retired
to his own room, where Boots softly locked him up.
"Boots couldn't but feel what a base deceiver he was when they asked him
at breakfast (they had ordered sweet milk-and-water, and toast and
currant jelly, overnight) about the pony. It really was as much as he
could do, he don't mind confessing to me, to look them two young things
in the face, and think how wicked he had grown up to be. Howsomever, he
went on a-lying like a Trojan, about the pony. He told 'em it did so
unfortunately happen that the pony was half-clipped, you see, and that
he couldn't be taken out in that state for fear that it should strike to
his inside. But that he'd be finished clipping in the course of the day,
and that to-morrow morning at eight o'clock the phaeton would be ready.
Boots' view of the whole case, looking back upon it in my room, is, that
Mrs. Harry Walmers, Jr., was beginning to give in. She hadn't had her
hair curled when she went to bed, and she didn't seem quite up to
brushing it herself, and it's getting in her eyes put her out. But
nothing put out Master Harry. He sat behind his breakfast cup, a-tearing
away at the jelly, as if he had been his own father.
