‘You must have been a queer fellow when you were a child, confounded
queer.  It’s odd, all that about the picture in your first paper—prosy,
but told in a devilish gentlemanly sort of way.  In places like that I
could come in with great effect with a touch of life—don’t you feel that?
                       [Picture: A Charming Fellow]
‘I am anxiously waiting for your next paper to know whether your friends
live upon the premises, and at your expense, which I take it for granted
is the case.  If I am right in this impression, I know a charming fellow
(an excellent companion and most delightful company) who will be proud to
join you.  Some years ago he seconded a great many prize-fighters, and
once fought an amateur match himself; since then he has driven several
mails, broken at different periods all the lamps on the right-hand side
of Oxford-street, and six times carried away every bell-handle in
Bloomsbury-square, besides turning off the gas in various thoroughfares.
In point of gentlemanliness he is unrivalled, and I should say that next
to myself he is of all men the best suited to your purpose.
                                                    ‘Expecting your reply,
                                                                    ‘I am,
                                                                 ‘&c. &c.’
                                * * * * *
Master Humphrey informs this gentleman that his application, both as it
concerns himself and his friend, is rejected.
II
MASTER HUMPHREY, FROM HIS CLOCK-SIDE IN THE CHIMNEY-CORNER
MY old companion tells me it is midnight.  The fire glows brightly,
crackling with a sharp and cheerful sound, as if it loved to burn.  The
merry cricket on the hearth (my constant visitor), this ruddy blaze, my
clock, and I, seem to share the world among us, and to be the only things
awake.  The wind, high and boisterous but now, has died away and hoarsely
mutters in its sleep.  I love all times and seasons each in its turn, and
am apt, perhaps, to think the present one the best; but past or coming I
always love this peaceful time of night, when long-buried thoughts,
favoured by the gloom and silence, steal from their graves, and haunt the
scenes of faded happiness and hope.
The popular faith in ghosts has a remarkable affinity with the whole
current of our thoughts at such an hour as this, and seems to be their
necessary and natural consequence.  For who can wonder that man should
feel a vague belief in tales of disembodied spirits wandering through
those places which they once dearly affected, when he himself, scarcely
less separated from his old world than they, is for ever lingering upon
past emotions and bygone times, and hovering, the ghost of his former
self, about the places and people that warmed his heart of old?  It is
thus that at this quiet hour I haunt the house where I was born, the
rooms I used to tread, the scenes of my infancy, my boyhood, and my
youth; it is thus that I prowl around my buried treasure (though not of
gold or silver), and mourn my loss; it is thus that I revisit the ashes
of extinguished fires, and take my silent stand at old bedsides.  If my
spirit should ever glide back to this chamber when my body is mingled
with the dust, it will but follow the course it often took in the old
man’s lifetime, and add but one more change to the subjects of its
contemplation.
