III.
At length, after a lapse of some days, there came another streak of fine
bright hardy autumn weather.  It was a Saturday.  The window was open,
and the children were gone.  Not surprising, this, for he had patiently
watched and waited at the corner until they _were_ gone.
"Good-day," he said to the face; absolutely getting his hat clear off his
head this time.
"Good-day to you, sir."
"I am glad you have a fine sky again to look at."
"Thank you, sir.  It is kind if you."
"You are an invalid, I fear?"
"No, sir.  I have very good health."
"But are you not always lying down?"
"Oh yes, I am always lying down, because I cannot sit up!  But I am not
an invalid."
The laughing eyes seemed highly to enjoy his great mistake.
"Would you mind taking the trouble to come in, sir?  There is a beautiful
view from this window.  And you would see that I am not at all ill--being
so good as to care."
It was said to help him, as he stood irresolute, but evidently desiring
to enter, with his diffident hand on the latch of the garden-gate.  It
did help him, and he went in.
The room upstairs was a very clean white room with a low roof.  Its only
inmate lay on a couch that brought her face to a level with the window.
The couch was white too; and her simple dress or wrapper being light
blue, like the band around her hair, she had an ethereal look, and a
fanciful appearance of lying among clouds.  He felt that she
instinctively perceived him to be by habit a downcast taciturn man; it
was another help to him to have established that understanding so easily,
and got it over.
There was an awkward constraint upon him, nevertheless, as he touched her
hand, and took a chair at the side of her couch.
"I see now," he began, not at all fluently, "how you occupy your hand.
Only seeing you from the path outside, I thought you were playing upon
something."
She was engaged in very nimbly and dexterously making lace.  A
lace-pillow lay upon her breast; and the quick movements and changes of
her hands upon it, as she worked, had given them the action he had
misinterpreted.
"That is curious," she answered with a bright smile.  "For I often fancy,
myself, that I play tunes while I am at work."
"Have you any musical knowledge?"
She shook her head.
"I think I could pick out tunes, if I had any instrument, which could be
made as handy to me as my lace-pillow.  But I dare say I deceive myself.
At all events, I shall never know."
"You have a musical voice.  Excuse me; I have heard you sing."
"With the children?" she answered, slightly colouring.  "Oh yes.  I sing
with the dear children, if it can be called singing."
Barbox Brothers glanced at the two small forms in the room, and hazarded
the speculation that she was fond of children, and that she was learned
in new systems of teaching them?
