"It was very wrong of her," said Barbox Brothers with a knitted brow, "to
marry you, making a secret of her infirmity.'
"Well, sir!" pleaded Lamps in behalf of the long-deceased.  "You see,
Phoebe and me, we have talked that over too.  And Lord bless us!  Such a
number on us has our infirmities, what with fits, and what with misfits,
of one sort and another, that if we confessed to 'em all before we got
married, most of us might never get married."
"Might not that be for the better?"
"Not in this case, sir," said Phoebe, giving her hand to her father.
"No, not in this case, sir," said her father, patting it between his own.
"You correct me," returned Barbox Brothers with a blush; "and I must look
so like a Brute, that at all events it would be superfluous in me to
confess to _that_ infirmity.  I wish you would tell me a little more
about yourselves.  I hardly knew how to ask it of you, for I am conscious
that I have a bad stiff manner, a dull discouraging way with me, but I
wish you would."
"With all our hearts, sir," returned Lamps gaily for both.  "And first of
all, that you may know my name--"
"Stay!" interposed the visitor with a slight flush.  "What signifies your
name?  Lamps is name enough for me.  I like it.  It is bright and
expressive.  What do I want more?"
"Why, to be sure, sir," returned Lamps.  "I have in general no other name
down at the Junction; but I thought, on account of your being here as a
first-class single, in a private character, that you might--"
The visitor waved the thought away with his hand, and Lamps acknowledged
the mark of confidence by taking another rounder.
"You are hard-worked, I take for granted?" said Barbox Brothers, when the
subject of the rounder came out of it much dirtier than be went into it.
Lamps was beginning, "Not particular so"--when his daughter took him up.
"Oh yes, sir, he is very hard-worked.  Fourteen, fifteen, eighteen hours
a day.  Sometimes twenty-four hours at a time."
"And you," said Barbox Brothers, "what with your school, Phoebe, and what
with your lace-making--"
"But my school is a pleasure to me," she interrupted, opening her brown
eyes wider, as if surprised to find him so obtuse.  "I began it when I
was but a child, because it brought me and other children into company,
don't you see?  _That_ was not work.  I carry it on still, because it
keeps children about me.  _That_ is not work.  I do it as love, not as
work.  Then my lace-pillow;" her busy hands had stopped, as if her
argument required all her cheerful earnestness, but now went on again at
the name; "it goes with my thoughts when I think, and it goes with my
tunes when I hum any, and _that's_ not work.  Why, you yourself thought
it was music, you know, sir.  And so it is to me."
