"Phoebe's."
"And who," said Barbox Brothers, quite as much embarrassed by his part in
the dialogue as the child could possibly be by his, "is Phoebe?"
To which the child made answer: "Why, Phoebe, of course."
The small but sharp observer had eyed his questioner closely, and had
taken his moral measure.  He lowered his guard, and rather assumed a tone
with him: as having discovered him to be an unaccustomed person in the
art of polite conversation.
"Phoebe," said the child, "can't be anybobby else but Phoebe.  Can she?"
"No, I suppose not."
"Well," returned the child, "then why did you ask me?"
Deeming it prudent to shift his ground, Barbox Brothers took up a new
position.
"What do you do there?  Up there in that room where the open window is.
What do you do there?"
"Cool," said the child.
"Eh?"
"Co-o-ol," the child repeated in a louder voice, lengthening out the word
with a fixed look and great emphasis, as much as to say: "What's the use
of your having grown up, if you're such a donkey as not to understand
me?"
"Ah!  School, school," said Barbox Brothers.  "Yes, yes, yes.  And Phoebe
teaches you?"
The child nodded.
"Good boy."
"Tound it out, have you?" said the child.
"Yes, I have found it out.  What would you do with twopence, if I gave it
you?"
"Pend it."
The knock-down promptitude of this reply leaving him not a leg to stand
upon, Barbox Brothers produced the twopence with great lameness, and
withdrew in a state of humiliation.
But, seeing the face on the window-sill as he passed the cottage, he
acknowledged its presence there with a gesture, which was not a nod, not
a bow, not a removal of his hat from his head, but was a diffident
compromise between or struggle with all three.  The eyes in the face
seemed amused, or cheered, or both, and the lips modestly said: "Good-day
to you, sir."
"I find I must stick for a time to Mugby Junction," said Barbox Brothers
with much gravity, after once more stopping on his return road to look at
the Lines where they went their several ways so quietly.  "I can't make
up my mind yet which iron road to take.  In fact, I must get a little
accustomed to the Junction before I can decide."
So, he announced at the Inn that he was "going to stay on for the
present," and improved his acquaintance with the Junction that night, and
again next morning, and again next night and morning: going down to the
station, mingling with the people there, looking about him down all the
avenues of railway, and beginning to take an interest in the incomings
and outgoings of the trains.  At first, he often put his head into
Lamps's little room, but he never found Lamps there.  A pair or two of
velveteen shoulders he usually found there, stooping over the fire,
sometimes in connection with a clasped knife and a piece of bread and
meat; but the answer to his inquiry, "Where's Lamps?" was, either that he
was "t'other side the line," or, that it was his off-time, or (in the
latter case) his own personal introduction to another Lamps who was not
his Lamps.  However, he was not so desperately set upon seeing Lamps now,
but he bore the disappointment.  Nor did he so wholly devote himself to
his severe application to the study of Mugby Junction as to neglect
exercise.  On the contrary, he took a walk every day, and always the same
walk.  But the weather turned cold and wet again, and the window was
never open.
