“Why should you be?” asked Rose.
“Nothing could save him,” cried the girl. “If I told others what I have
told you, and led to their being taken, he would be sure to die. He is
the boldest, and has been so cruel!”
“Is it possible,” cried Rose, “that for such a man as this you can
resign every future hope, and the certainty of immediate rescue? It is
madness.”
“I don’t know what it is,” answered the girl; “I only know that it
is so, and not with me alone, but with hundreds of others as bad and
wretched as myself. I must go back. Whether it is God’s wrath for the
wrong I have done, I do not know; but I am drawn back to him through
every suffering and ill usage, and should be, I believe, if I knew that
I was to die by his hand at last.”
“What am I to do?” said Rose. “I should not let you depart from me
thus.”
“You should, lady, and I know you will,” rejoined the girl, rising.
“You will not stop my going because I have trusted in your goodness,
and forced no promise from you, as I might have done.”
“Of what use, then, is the communication you have made?” said Rose.
“This mystery must be investigated, or how will its disclosure to me
benefit Oliver, whom you are anxious to serve?”
“You must have some kind gentleman about you that will hear it as a
secret, and advise you what to do,” rejoined the girl.
“But where can I find you again when it is necessary?” asked Rose. “I
do not seek to know where these dreadful people live, but where will
you be walking or passing at any settled period from this time?”
“Will you promise me that you will have my secret strictly kept, and
come alone, or with the only other person that knows it, and that I
shall not be watched or followed?” asked the girl.
“I promise you solemnly,” answered Rose.
“Every Sunday night, from eleven until the clock strikes twelve,” said
the girl without hesitation, “I will walk on London Bridge if I am
alive.”
“Stay another moment,” interposed Rose, as the girl moved hurriedly
towards the door. “Think once again on your own condition, and the
opportunity you have of escaping from it. You have a claim on me: not
only as the voluntary bearer of this intelligence, but as a woman
lost almost beyond redemption, Will you return to this gang of robbers
and to this man, when a word can save you? What fascination is it that
can take you back, and make you cling to wickedness and misery? Oh! is
there no chord in your heart that I can touch—is there nothing left to
which I can appeal against this terrible infatuation?”
“When ladies as young, and good, and beautiful as you are,” replied
the girl steadily, “give away your hearts, love will carry you all
lengths—even such as you who have home, friends, other admirers, every
thing to fill them. When such as me, who have no certain roof but
the coffin-lid, and no friend in sickness or death but the hospital
nurse, set our rotten hearts on any man, and let him fill the place
that parents, home, and friends filled once, or that has been a blank
through all our wretched lives, who can hope to cure us? Pity us,
lady—pity us for having only one feeling of the woman left, and for
having that turned by a heavy judgment from a comfort and a pride into
a new means of violence and suffering.”
