'Where am I, Liz?'
'Still in the hollow down by the flare.'
'There seems to be the deuce-and-all in the hollow down by the flare,'
said the boy, glancing from her eyes to the brazier, which had a grisly
skeleton look on its long thin legs.
'There are you, Charley, working your way, in secret from father, at
the school; and you get prizes; and you go on better and better; and you
come to be a--what was it you called it when you told me about that?'
'Ha, ha! Fortune-telling not know the name!' cried the boy, seeming to
be rather relieved by this default on the part of the hollow down by the
flare. 'Pupil-teacher.'
'You come to be a pupil-teacher, and you still go on better and better,
and you rise to be a master full of learning and respect. But the secret
has come to father's knowledge long before, and it has divided you from
father, and from me.'
'No it hasn't!'
'Yes it has, Charley. I see, as plain as plain can be, that your way is
not ours, and that even if father could be got to forgive your taking
it (which he never could be), that way of yours would be darkened by our
way. But I see too, Charley--'
'Still as plain as plain can be, Liz?' asked the boy playfully.
'Ah! Still. That it is a great work to have cut you away from father's
life, and to have made a new and good beginning. So there am I, Charley,
left alone with father, keeping him as straight as I can, watching
for more influence than I have, and hoping that through some fortunate
chance, or when he is ill, or when--I don't know what--I may turn him to
wish to do better things.'
'You said you couldn't read a book, Lizzie. Your library of books is the
hollow down by the flare, I think.'
'I should be very glad to be able to read real books. I feel my want of
learning very much, Charley. But I should feel it much more, if I didn't
know it to be a tie between me and father.--Hark! Father's tread!'
It being now past midnight, the bird of prey went straight to roost. At
mid-day following he reappeared at the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters, in
the character, not new to him, of a witness before a Coroner's Jury.
Mr Mortimer Lightwood, besides sustaining the character of one of the
witnesses, doubled the part with that of the eminent solicitor who
watched the proceedings on behalf of the representatives of the
deceased, as was duly recorded in the newspapers. Mr Inspector watched
the proceedings too, and kept his watching closely to himself. Mr Julius
Handford having given his right address, and being reported in solvent
circumstances as to his bill, though nothing more was known of him at
his hotel except that his way of life was very retired, had no summons
to appear, and was merely present in the shades of Mr Inspector's mind.
