A joke's a joke; and even practical jests are very capital in their way,
if you can only get the other party to see the fun of them; but the
population of our street were so dull of apprehension, as to be quite
lost to a sense of the drollery of this proceeding: and the consequence
was, that our next-door neighbour was obliged to tell the single
gentleman, that unless he gave up entertaining his friends at home, he
really must be compelled to part with him.
The single gentleman received the remonstrance with great good-humour,
and promised from that time forward, to spend his evenings at a
coffee-house--a determination which afforded general and unmixed
satisfaction.
The next night passed off very well, everybody being delighted with the
change; but on the next, the noises were renewed with greater spirit than
ever.  The single gentleman's friends being unable to see him in his own
house every alternate night, had come to the determination of seeing him
home every night; and what with the discordant greetings of the friends
at parting, and the noise created by the single gentleman in his passage
up-stairs, and his subsequent struggles to get his boots off, the evil
was not to be borne.  So, our next-door neighbour gave the single
gentleman, who was a very good lodger in other respects, notice to quit;
and the single gentleman went away, and entertained his friends in other
lodgings.
The next applicant for the vacant first floor, was of a very different
character from the troublesome single gentleman who had just quitted it.
He was a tall, thin, young gentleman, with a profusion of brown hair,
reddish whiskers, and very slightly developed moustaches.  He wore a
braided surtout, with frogs behind, light grey trousers, and wash-leather
gloves, and had altogether rather a military appearance.  So unlike the
roystering single gentleman.  Such insinuating manners, and such a
delightful address!  So seriously disposed, too!  When he first came to
look at the lodgings, he inquired most particularly whether he was sure
to be able to get a seat in the parish church; and when he had agreed to
take them, he requested to have a list of the different local charities,
as he intended to subscribe his mite to the most deserving among them.
Our next-door neighbour was now perfectly happy.  He had got a lodger at
last, of just his own way of thinking--a serious, well-disposed man, who
abhorred gaiety, and loved retirement.  He took down the bill with a
light heart, and pictured in imagination a long series of quiet Sundays,
on which he and his lodger would exchange mutual civilities and Sunday
papers.
The serious man arrived, and his luggage was to arrive from the country
next morning.  He borrowed a clean shirt, and a prayer-book, from our
next-door neighbour, and retired to rest at an early hour, requesting
that he might be called punctually at ten o'clock next morning--not
before, as he was much fatigued.
He _was_ called, and did not answer: he was called again, but there was
no reply.  Our next-door neighbour became alarmed, and burst the door
open.  The serious man had left the house mysteriously; carrying with him
the shirt, the prayer-book, a teaspoon, and the bedclothes.
