At last, one fine morning, at a quarter before eight o'clock, A.M., two
glass-coaches drove up to the Miss Willises' door, at which Mr. Robinson
had arrived in a cab ten minutes before, dressed in a light-blue coat and
double-milled kersey pantaloons, white neckerchief, pumps, and
dress-gloves, his manner denoting, as appeared from the evidence of the
housemaid at No. 23, who was sweeping the door-steps at the time, a
considerable degree of nervous excitement.  It was also hastily reported
on the same testimony, that the cook who opened the door, wore a large
white bow of unusual dimensions, in a much smarter head-dress than the
regulation cap to which the Miss Willises invariably restricted the
somewhat excursive tastes of female servants in general.
The intelligence spread rapidly from house to house.  It was quite clear
that the eventful morning had at length arrived; the whole row stationed
themselves behind their first and second floor blinds, and waited the
result in breathless expectation.
At last the Miss Willises' door opened; the door of the first glass-coach
did the same.  Two gentlemen, and a pair of ladies to correspond--friends
of the family, no doubt; up went the steps, bang went the door, off went
the first class-coach, and up came the second.
The street door opened again; the excitement of the whole row
increased--Mr. Robinson and the eldest Miss Willis.  'I thought so,' said
the lady at No. 19; 'I always said it was _Miss_ Willis!'--'Well, I
never!' ejaculated the young lady at No. 18 to the young lady at No.
17.--'Did you ever, dear!' responded the young lady at No. 17 to the
young lady at No. 18.  'It's too ridiculous!' exclaimed a spinster of an
_un_certain age, at No. 16, joining in the conversation.  But who shall
portray the astonishment of Gordon-place, when Mr. Robinson handed in
_all_ the Miss Willises, one after the other, and then squeezed himself
into an acute angle of the glass-coach, which forthwith proceeded at a
brisk pace, after the other glass-coach, which other glass-coach had
itself proceeded, at a brisk pace, in the direction of the parish church!
Who shall depict the perplexity of the clergyman, when _all_ the Miss
Willises knelt down at the communion-table, and repeated the responses
incidental to the marriage service in an audible voice--or who shall
describe the confusion which prevailed, when--even after the difficulties
thus occasioned had been adjusted--_all_ the Miss Willises went into
hysterics at the conclusion of the ceremony, until the sacred edifice
resounded with their united wailings!
As the four sisters and Mr. Robinson continued to occupy the same house
after this memorable occasion, and as the married sister, whoever she
was, never appeared in public without the other three, we are not quite
clear that the neighbours ever would have discovered the real Mrs.
Robinson, but for a circumstance of the most gratifying description,
which _will_ happen occasionally in the best-regulated families.  Three
quarter-days elapsed, and the row, on whom a new light appeared to have
been bursting for some time, began to speak with a sort of implied
confidence on the subject, and to wonder how Mrs. Robinson--the youngest
Miss Willis that was--got on; and servants might be seen running up the
steps, about nine or ten o'clock every morning, with 'Missis's
compliments, and wishes to know how Mrs. Robinson finds herself this
morning?'  And the answer always was, 'Mrs. Robinson's compliments, and
she's in very good spirits, and doesn't find herself any worse.'  The
piano was heard no longer, the knitting-needles were laid aside, drawing
was neglected, and mantua-making and millinery, on the smallest scale
imaginable, appeared to have become the favourite amusement of the whole
family.  The parlour wasn't quite as tidy as it used to be, and if you
called in the morning, you would see lying on a table, with an old
newspaper carelessly thrown over them, two or three particularly small
caps, rather larger than if they had been made for a moderate-sized doll,
with a small piece of lace, in the shape of a horse-shoe, let in behind:
or perhaps a white robe, not very large in circumference, but very much
out of proportion in point of length, with a little tucker round the top,
and a frill round the bottom; and once when we called, we saw a long
white roller, with a kind of blue margin down each side, the probable use
of which, we were at a loss to conjecture.  Then we fancied that Dr.
Dawson, the surgeon, &c., who displays a large lamp with a different
colour in every pane of glass, at the corner of the row, began to be
knocked up at night oftener than he used to be; and once we were very
much alarmed by hearing a hackney-coach stop at Mrs. Robinson's door, at
half-past two o'clock in the morning, out of which there emerged a fat
old woman, in a cloak and night-cap, with a bundle in one hand, and a
pair of pattens in the other, who looked as if she had been suddenly
knocked up out of bed for some very special purpose.
