Mr. The Englishman went on for many weeks passing but disturbed evenings
and worse nights, and constantly experiencing that those aforesaid
windows in the houses of Memory and Mercy rattled after dark, and that he
had very imperfectly nailed them up.  Likewise, he went on for many weeks
daily improving the acquaintance of the Corporal and Bebelle.  That is to
say, he took Bebelle by the chin, and the Corporal by the hand, and
offered Bebelle sous and the Corporal cigars, and even got the length of
changing pipes with the Corporal and kissing Bebelle.  But he did it all
in a shamefaced way, and always took it extremely ill that Monsieur
Mutuel in his patch of sunlight should note what he did.  Whenever that
seemed to be the case, he always growled in his own tongue, "There you
are again, walnut-shell!  What business is it of yours?"
In a word, it had become the occupation of Mr. The Englishman's life to
look after the Corporal and little Bebelle, and to resent old Monsieur
Mutuel's looking after _him_.  An occupation only varied by a fire in the
town one windy night, and much passing of water-buckets from hand to hand
(in which the Englishman rendered good service), and much beating of
drums,--when all of a sudden the Corporal disappeared.
Next, all of a sudden, Bebelle disappeared.
She had been visible a few days later than the Corporal,--sadly
deteriorated as to washing and brushing,--but she had not spoken when
addressed by Mr. The Englishman, and had looked scared and had run away.
And now it would seem that she had run away for good.  And there lay the
Great Place under the windows, bare and barren.
In his shamefaced and constrained way, Mr. The Englishman asked no
question of any one, but watched from his front windows and watched from
his back windows, and lingered about the Place, and peeped in at the
Barber's shop, and did all this and much more with a whistling and tune-
humming pretence of not missing anything, until one afternoon when
Monsieur Mutuel's patch of sunlight was in shadow, and when, according to
all rule and precedent, he had no right whatever to bring his red ribbon
out of doors, behold here he was, advancing with his cap already in his
hand twelve paces off!
Mr. The Englishman had got as far into his usual objurgation as, "What bu-
si--" when he checked himself.
"Ah, it is sad, it is sad!  Helas, it is unhappy, it is sad!"  Thus old
Monsieur Mutuel, shaking his gray head.
"What busin--at least, I would say, what do you mean, Monsieur Mutuel?"
"Our Corporal.  Helas, our dear Corporal!"
"What has happened to him?"
"You have not heard?"
"No."
"At the fire.  But he was so brave, so ready.  Ah, too brave, too ready!"
"May the Devil carry you away!" the Englishman broke in impatiently; "I
beg your pardon,--I mean me,--I am not accustomed to speak French,--go
on, will you?"
