    “He has inscribed this book to one {28} whose skill will help him,
    under Providence, in all that human skill can do. {29}  To one who
    never could have recognised in any potentate on earth a higher claim
    to constant kindness and attention than he has recognized in him. * *
    * *”
The beautiful series of Christmas stories, with which during the last
fifteen years the public have become so familiar, was commenced by Mr.
Dickens in December, 1843, with _A Christmas Carol in Prose_, illustrated
by John Leech.  What Jeffrey, what Sydney Smith, what Jerrold, what
Thackeray thought and wrote about this little story is well known.
“Blessings on your kind heart, my dear Dickens,” wrote Jeffrey, “and may
it always be as full and as light as it is kind, and a fountain of
goodness to all within reach of its beatings.  We are all charmed with
your Carol; chiefly, I think, for the genuine goodness which breathes all
through it, and is the true inspiring angel by which its genius has been
awakened.  The whole scene of the Cratchits is like the dream of a
beneficent angel, in spite of its broad reality, and little Tiny Tim in
life and in death almost as sweet and touching as Nelly.  You may be sure
you have done more good, and not only fastened more kindly feelings, but
prompted more positive acts of benevolence by this little publication
than can be traced to all the pulpits and confessionals since Christmas,
1842.”
    “It is the work,” writes Thackeray, {30} “of the master of all the
    English humourists now alive; the young man who came and took his
    place calmly at the head of the whole tribe, and who has kept it.
    Think of all we owe Mr. Dickens since those half-dozen years, the
    store of happy hours that he has made us pass, the kindly and
    pleasant companions whom he has introduced to us; the harmless
    laughter, the generous wit, the frank, manly, human love which he has
    taught us to feel!  Every month of those years has brought us some
    kind token from this delightful genius.  His books may have lost in
    art, perhaps, but could we afford to wait?  Since the days when the
    _Spectator_ was produced by a man of kindred mind and temper, what
    books have appeared that have taken so affectionate a hold of the
    English public as these?
    “Who can listen to objections regarding such a book as this?  It
    seems to me a national benefit, and to every man or woman who reads
    it a personal kindness.  The last two people I heard speak of it were
    women; neither knew the other, or the author, and both said by way of
    criticism, ‘God bless him!’ * * * As for Tiny Tim, there is a certain
    passage in the book regarding that young gentleman about which a man
    should hardly venture to speak in print or in public, any more than
    he would of any other affections of his private heart.  There is not
    a reader in England but that little creature will be a bond of union
    between the author and him; and he will say of Charles Dickens, as
    the woman just now, ‘God bless him!’  What a feeling is this for a
    writer to be able to inspire, and what a reward to reap.”
