    “For myself, I have resolved that I will never from this time enter
    into any negotiation with any person for the transmission across the
    Atlantic of early proofs of anything I may write, and that I will
    forego all profit derivable from such a source.  I do not venture to
    urge this line of proceeding upon you, but I would beg to suggest,
    and to lay great stress upon the necessity of observing one other
    course of action, to which I cannot too emphatically call your
    attention.  The persons who exert themselves to mislead the American
    public on this question, to put down its discussion, and to suppress
    and distort the truth in reference to it in every possible way, are
    (as you may easily suppose) those who have a strong interest in the
    existing system of piracy and plunder: inasmuch as, so long as it
    continues, they can gain a very comfortable living out of the brains
    of other men, while they would find it very difficult to earn bread
    by the exercise of their own.  These are the editors and proprietors
    of newspapers almost exclusively devoted to the re-publication of
    popular English works.  They are, for the most part, men of very low
    attainments, and of more than indifferent reputation; and I have
    frequently seen them, in the same sheet in which they boast of the
    rapid sale of many thousand copies of an English reprint, coarsely
    and insolently attacking the author of that very book, and heaping
    scurrility and slander upon his head.  I would therefore entreat you,
    in the name of the honourable pursuit with which you are so
    intimately connected, never to hold correspondence with any of these
    men, and never to negotiate with them for the sale of early proofs of
    any work over which you have control, but to treat on all occasions
    with some respectable American publishing house, and with such an
    establishment only.  Our common interest in this subject, and my
    advocacy of it, single-handed, on every occasion that has presented
    itself during my absence from Europe, form my excuse for addressing
    you.
                                                               “I am, &c.,
                                                        “CHARLES DICKENS.”
By his “American Notes,” and by some of the scenes in “Martin
Chuzzlewit,” Dickens gave for a time great offence to the Americans,
though he only satirised some of their foibles (with just a spice of
piquante exaggeration), as he had ours at home.  Let the reader hear what
two candid Americans have recently written on this subject:—
    “The ‘American Notes’ are weak, and unworthy of their author; but the
    American sketches in ‘Martin Chuzzlewit’ are among the cleverest and
    truest things he has ever written.  The satire was richly deserved,
    well applied, and has done a great deal of good.  To claim that it
    was mere burlesque and exaggeration, is sheer nonsense, and it is
    highly disingenuous to deny the existence of the absurdities upon
    which it was founded.  Moreover, the popular implication that there
    is really nothing now in the country justly to provoke a smile—to
    urge with so much complacency that we have changed all that—argues
    the continued existence of not a little of the same thin-skinned
    tetchiness, the same inability ‘to see ourselves as others see us,’
    which made us so legitimate a target before.”
