"But all this seems to me," said Alfred, "to be very serious."
"Serious!" cried the Doctor. "If you allowed such things to be serious,
you must go mad, or die, or climb up to the top of a mountain, and turn
hermit."
"Besides--so long ago," said Alfred.
"Long ago!" returned the Doctor. "Do you know what the world has been
doing, ever since? Do you know what else it has been doing? _I_ don't!"
"It has gone to law a little," observed Mr. Snitchey, stirring his tea.
"Although the way out has been always made too easy," said his partner.
"And you'll excuse my saying, Doctor," pursued Mr. Snitchey, "having
been already put a thousand times in possession of my opinion, in the
course of our discussions, that, in its having gone to law, and in its
legal system altogether, I do observe a serious side--now, really, a
something tangible, and with a purpose and intention in it--"
Clemency Newcome made an angular tumble against the table, occasioning
a sounding clatter among the cups and saucers.
"Heyday! what's the matter there?" exclaimed the Doctor.
"It's this evil-inclined blue bag," said Clemency, "always tripping up
somebody!"
"With a purpose and intention in it, I was saying," resumed Snitchey,
"that commands respect. Life a farce, Doctor Jeddler? With law in it?"
The Doctor laughed, and looked at Alfred.
"Granted, if you please, that war is foolish," said Snitchey. "There
we agree. For example. Here's a smiling country," pointing it out with
his fork, "once overrun by soldiers--trespassers every man of 'em--and
laid waste by fire and sword. He, he, he! The idea of any man exposing
himself, voluntarily, to fire and sword! Stupid, wasteful, positively
ridiculous; you laugh at your fellow-creatures, you know, when you
think of it! But take this smiling country as it stands. Think of the
laws appertaining to real property; to the bequest and devise of real
property; to the mortgage and redemption of real property; to leasehold,
freehold, and copyhold estate; think," said Mr. Snitchey, with such
great emotion that he actually smacked his lips, "of the complicated
laws relating to title and proof of title, with all the contradictory
precedents and numerous acts of parliament connected with them; think of
the infinite number of ingenious and interminable chancery suits, to
which this pleasant prospect may give rise;--and acknowledge, Doctor
Jeddler, that there is a green spot in the scheme about us! I believe,"
said Mr. Snitchey, looking at his partner, "that I speak for Self and
Craggs?"
Mr. Craggs having signified assent, Mr. Snitchey, somewhat freshened by
his recent eloquence, observed that he would take a little more beef,
and another cup of tea.
"I don't stand up for life in general," he added, rubbing his hands and
chuckling, "it's full of folly; full of something worse. Professions of
trust, and confidence, and unselfishness, and all that. Bah, bah, bah!
We see what they're worth. But you mustn't laugh at life; you've got a
game to play; a very serious game indeed! Everybody's playing against
you, you know; and you're playing against them. Oh! it's a very
interesting thing. There are deep moves upon the board. You must only
laugh, Doctor Jeddler, when you win; and then not much. He, he, he! And
then not much," repeated Snitchey, rolling his head and winking his eye;
as if he would have added, 'you may do this instead!'
