"'What do you think of _that_?' said the goblin, turning his large face
towards Gabriel Grub.
"Gabriel murmured out something about its being very pretty, and looked
somewhat ashamed, as the goblin bent his fiery eyes upon him.
"'_You_ a miserable man!' said the goblin, in a tone of excessive
contempt. 'You!' He appeared disposed to add more, but indignation
choked his utterance, so he lifted up one of his very pliable legs, and
flourishing it above his head a little, to insure his aim, administered
a good sound kick to Gabriel Grub; immediately after which, all the
goblins in waiting crowded round the wretched sexton, and kicked him
without mercy: according to the established and invariable custom of
courtiers upon earth, who kick whom royalty kicks, and hug whom royalty
hugs.
"'Show him some more!' said the king of the goblins.
"At these words, the cloud was dispelled, and a rich and beautiful
landscape was disclosed to view--there is just such another to this
day, within half a mile of the old abbey town. The sun shone from
out the clear blue sky, the water sparkled beneath his rays, and the
trees looked greener, and the flowers more gay, beneath his cheering
influence. The water rippled on, with a pleasant sound; the trees
rustled in the light wind that murmured among their leaves; the birds
sang upon the boughs; and the lark carolled on high, her welcome to the
morning. Yes, it was morning: the bright, balmy morning of summer; the
minutest leaf, the smallest blade of grass, was instinct with life.
The ant crept forth to her daily toil, the butterfly fluttered and
basked in the warm rays of the sun; myriads of insects spread their
transparent wings, and revelled in their brief but happy existence.
Man walked forth, elated with the scene; and all was brightness and
splendour.
"'_You_ a miserable man!' said the king of the goblins, in a more
contemptuous tone than before. And again the king of the goblins gave
his leg a flourish; again it descended on the shoulders of the sexton;
and again the attendant goblins imitated the example of their chief.
"Many a time the cloud went and came, and many a lesson it taught to
Gabriel Grub, who, although his shoulders smarted with pain from the
frequent applications of the goblins' feet, looked on with an interest
that nothing could diminish. He saw that men who worked hard, and
earned their scanty bread with lives of labour, were cheerful and
happy; and that to the most ignorant, the sweet face of nature was a
never-failing source of cheerfulness and joy. He saw those who had
been delicately nurtured, and tenderly brought up, cheerful under
privations, and superior to suffering, that would have crushed many
of a rougher grain, because they bore within their own bosoms the
materials of happiness, contentment, and peace. He saw that women, the
tenderest and most fragile of all God's creatures, were the oftenest
superior to sorrow, adversity, and distress; and he saw that it was
because they bore in their own hearts, an inexhaustible well-spring of
affection and devotion. Above all, he saw that men like himself, who
snarled at the mirth and cheerfulness of others, were the foulest weeds
on the fair face of the earth; and setting all the good of the world
against the evil, he came to the conclusion that it was a very decent
and respectable sort of world after all. No sooner had he formed it,
than the cloud which closed over the last picture, seemed to settle on
his senses, and lull him to repose. One by one the goblins faded from
his sight; and as the last one disappeared, he sunk to sleep.
