But Trotty had a father’s heart within him; which had somehow got into
his breast in spite of this decree; and he could not bear that Meg, in
the blush of her brief joy, should have her fortune read by these wise
gentlemen.  ‘God help her,’ thought poor Trotty.  ‘She will know it soon
enough.’
He anxiously signed, therefore, to the young smith, to take her away.
But he was so busy, talking to her softly at a little distance, that he
only became conscious of this desire, simultaneously with Alderman Cute.
Now, the Alderman had not yet had his say, but _he_ was a philosopher,
too—practical, though!  Oh, very practical—and, as he had no idea of
losing any portion of his audience, he cried ‘Stop!’
‘Now, you know,’ said the Alderman, addressing his two friends, with a
self-complacent smile upon his face which was habitual to him, ‘I am a
plain man, and a practical man; and I go to work in a plain practical
way.  That’s my way.  There is not the least mystery or difficulty in
dealing with this sort of people if you only understand ’em, and can talk
to ’em in their own manner.  Now, you Porter!  Don’t you ever tell me, or
anybody else, my friend, that you haven’t always enough to eat, and of
the best; because I know better.  I have tasted your tripe, you know, and
you can’t “chaff” me.  You understand what “chaff” means, eh?  That’s the
right word, isn’t it?  Ha, ha, ha! Lord bless you,’ said the Alderman,
turning to his friends again, ‘it’s the easiest thing on earth to deal
with this sort of people, if you understand ’em.’
Famous man for the common people, Alderman Cute!  Never out of temper
with them!  Easy, affable, joking, knowing gentleman!
‘You see, my friend,’ pursued the Alderman, ‘there’s a great deal of
nonsense talked about Want—“hard up,” you know; that’s the phrase, isn’t
it? ha! ha! ha!—and I intend to Put it Down.  There’s a certain amount of
cant in vogue about Starvation, and I mean to Put it Down.  That’s all!
Lord bless you,’ said the Alderman, turning to his friends again, ‘you
may Put Down anything among this sort of people, if you only know the way
to set about it.’
Trotty took Meg’s hand and drew it through his arm.  He didn’t seem to
know what he was doing though.
‘Your daughter, eh?’ said the Alderman, chucking her familiarly under the
chin.
Always affable with the working classes, Alderman Cute!  Knew what
pleased them!  Not a bit of pride!
‘Where’s her mother?’ asked that worthy gentleman.
‘Dead,’ said Toby.  ‘Her mother got up linen; and was called to Heaven
when She was born.’
‘Not to get up linen _there_, I suppose,’ remarked the Alderman
pleasantly.
Toby might or might not have been able to separate his wife in Heaven
from her old pursuits.  But query: If Mrs. Alderman Cute had gone to
Heaven, would Mr. Alderman Cute have pictured her as holding any state or
station there?
