"I don't know anything," said Britain, with a leaden eye and an
immovable visage. "I don't care for anything. I don't make out anything.
I don't believe anything. And I don't want anything."
Although this forlorn summary of his general condition, may have been
overcharged in an access of despondency, Benjamin Britain--sometimes
called Little Britain, to distinguish him from Great; as we might say
Young England, to express Old England with a difference--had defined his
real state more accurately than might be supposed. For serving as a sort
of man Miles, to the Doctor's Friar Bacon; and listening day after day
to innumerable orations addressed by the Doctor to various people, all
tending to shew that his very existence was at best a mistake and an
absurdity; this unfortunate servitor had fallen, by degrees, into such
an abyss of confused and contradictory suggestions from within and
without, that Truth at the bottom of her well, was on the level surface
as compared with Britain in the depths of his mystification. The only
point he clearly comprehended, was, that the new element usually brought
into these discussions by Snitchey and Craggs, never served to make them
clearer, and always seemed to give the Doctor a species of advantage and
confirmation. Therefore he looked upon the Firm as one of the proximate
causes of his state of mind, and held them in abhorrence accordingly.
"But this is not our business, Alfred," said the Doctor. "Ceasing to be
my ward (as you have said) to-day; and leaving us full to the brim of
such learning as the Grammar School down here was able to give you, and
your studies in London could add to that, and such practical knowledge
as a dull old country Doctor like myself could graft upon both; you are
away, now, into the world. The first term of probation appointed by your
poor father, being over, away you go now, your own master, to fulfil his
second desire: and long before your three years' tour among the foreign
schools of medicine is finished, you'll have forgotten us. Lord, you'll
forget us easily in six months!"
"If I do--But you know better; why should I speak to you!" said Alfred,
laughing.
"I don't know anything of the sort," returned the Doctor. "What do you
say, Marion?"
Marion, trifling with her teacup, seemed to say--but she didn't say
it--that he was welcome to forget them, if he could. Grace pressed the
blooming face against her cheek, and smiled.
"I haven't been, I hope, a very unjust steward in the execution of my
trust," pursued the Doctor; "but I am to be, at any rate, formally
discharged, and released, and what not, this morning; and here are our
good friends Snitchey and Craggs, with a bagful of papers, and accounts,
and documents, for the transfer of the balance of the trust fund to you
(I wish it was a more difficult one to dispose of, Alfred, but you must
get to be a great man and make it so), and other drolleries of that
sort, which are to be signed, sealed, and delivered."
