"The day had broken when Gabriel Grub awoke, and found himself lying,
at full length, on the flat grave-stone in the churchyard with the
wicker bottle lying empty by his side, and his coat, spade, and
lantern, all well whitened by the last night's frost, scattered on
the ground. The stone on which he had first seen the goblin seated,
stood bolt upright before him, and the grave at which he had worked,
the night before, was not far off. At first, he began to doubt the
reality of his adventures, but the acute pain in his shoulders when
he attempted to rise, assured him that the kicking of the goblins was
certainly not ideal. He was staggered again, by observing no traces of
footsteps in the snow, on which the goblins had played at leap-frog
with the grave-stones, but he speedily accounted for this circumstance
when he remembered that, being spirits, they would leave no visible
impression behind them. So, Gabriel Grub got on his feet as well as he
could, for the pain in his back; and brushing the frost off his coat,
put it on, and turned his face towards the town.
"But he was an altered man, and he could not bear the thought of
returning to a place where his repentance would be scoffed at, and his
reformation disbelieved. He hesitated for a few moments; and then
turned away to wander where he might, and seek his bread elsewhere.
"The lantern, the spade, and the wicker bottle, were found, that day,
in the churchyard. There were a great many speculations about the
sexton's fate, at first, but it was speedily determined that he had
been carried away by the goblins; and there were not wanting some
very credible witnesses who had distinctly seen him whisked through
the air on the back of a chestnut horse blind of one eye, with the
hind-quarters of a lion, and the tail of a bear. At length all this was
devoutly believed; and the new sexton used to exhibit to the curious,
for a trifling emolument, a good-sized piece of the church weathercock
which had been accidentally kicked off by the aforesaid horse in his
a<eb>rial flight, and picked up by himself in the churchyard, a year or
two afterwards.
"Unfortunately, these stories were somewhat disturbed by the
unlooked-for reappearance of Gabriel Grub himself, some ten years
afterwards, a ragged, contented, rheumatic old man. He told his story
to the clergyman, and also to the mayor; and in course of time it began
to be received as a matter of history, in which form it has continued
down to this very day. The believers in the weathercock tale, having
misplaced their confidence once, were not easily prevailed upon to
part with it again, so they looked as wise as they could, shrugged
their shoulders, touched their foreheads, and murmured something about
Gabriel Grub having drunk all the Hollands, and then fallen asleep
on the flat tombstone; and they affected to explain what he supposed
he had witnessed in the goblins' cavern, by saying that he had seen
the world, and grown wiser. But this opinion, which was by no means a
popular one at any time, gradually died off; and be the matter how it
may, as Gabriel Grub was afflicted with rheumatism to the end of his
days, this story has at least one moral, if it teach no better one--and
that is, that if a man turn sulky and drink by himself at Christmas
time, he may make up his mind to be not a bit the better for it: let
the spirits be never so good, or let them be even as many degrees
beyond proof, as those which Gabriel Grub saw in the goblins' cavern."
