The cry responding, and being nearer, he caught up the lamp, and raised a
heavy curtain in the wall, by which he was accustomed to pass into and
out of the theatre where he lectured,—which adjoined his room.
Associated with youth and animation, and a high amphitheatre of faces
which his entrance charmed to interest in a moment, it was a ghostly
place when all this life was faded out of it, and stared upon him like an
emblem of Death.
“Halloa!” he cried.  “Halloa!  This way!  Come to the light!”  When, as
he held the curtain with one hand, and with the other raised the lamp and
tried to pierce the gloom that filled the place, something rushed past
him into the room like a wild-cat, and crouched down in a corner.
“What is it?” he said, hastily.
He might have asked “What is it?” even had he seen it well, as presently
he did when he stood looking at it gathered up in its corner.
A bundle of tatters, held together by a hand, in size and form almost an
infant’s, but in its greedy, desperate little clutch, a bad old man’s.  A
face rounded and smoothed by some half-dozen years, but pinched and
twisted by the experiences of a life.  Bright eyes, but not youthful.
Naked feet, beautiful in their childish delicacy,—ugly in the blood and
dirt that cracked upon them.  A baby savage, a young monster, a child who
had never been a child, a creature who might live to take the outward
form of man, but who, within, would live and perish a mere beast.
Used, already, to be worried and hunted like a beast, the boy crouched
down as he was looked at, and looked back again, and interposed his arm
to ward off the expected blow.
“I’ll bite,” he said, “if you hit me!”
The time had been, and not many minutes since, when such a sight as this
would have wrung the Chemist’s heart.  He looked upon it now, coldly; but
with a heavy effort to remember something—he did not know what—he asked
the boy what he did there, and whence he came.
“Where’s the woman?” he replied.  “I want to find the woman.”
“Who?”
“The woman.  Her that brought me here, and set me by the large fire.  She
was so long gone, that I went to look for her, and lost myself.  I don’t
want you.  I want the woman.”
He made a spring, so suddenly, to get away, that the dull sound of his
naked feet upon the floor was near the curtain, when Redlaw caught him by
his rags.
“Come! you let me go!” muttered the boy, struggling, and clenching his
teeth.  “I’ve done nothing to you.  Let me go, will you, to the woman!”
“That is not the way.  There is a nearer one,” said Redlaw, detaining
him, in the same blank effort to remember some association that ought, of
right, to bear upon this monstrous object.  “What is your name?”
