The relation of this affecting incident of private life brought master
and man to Mr. Perker's chambers. Lowten, holding the door half open,
was in conversation with a rustily-clad, miserable-looking man, in
boots without toes and gloves without fingers. There were traces of
privation and suffering--almost of despair--in his lank and careworn
countenance; he felt his poverty, for he shrunk to the dark side of the
staircase as Mr. Pickwick approached.
"It's very unfortunate," said the stranger, with a sigh.
"Very," said Lowten, scribbling his name on the door-post with his pen,
and rubbing it out again with the feather. "Will you leave a message
for him?"
"When do you think he'll be back?" inquired the stranger.
"Quite uncertain," replied Lowten, winking at Mr. Pickwick, as the
stranger cast his eyes towards the ground.
"You don't think it would be of any use my waiting for him?" said the
stranger, looking wistfully into the office.
"Oh no, I'm sure it wouldn't," replied the clerk, moving a little more
into the centre of the doorway. "He's certain not to be back this week,
and it's a chance whether he will be next; for when Perker once gets
out of town, he's never in a hurry to come back again."
"Out of town!" said Mr. Pickwick; "dear me, how unfortunate!"
"Don't go away, Mr. Pickwick," said Lowten, "I've got a letter for
you." The stranger seeming to hesitate, once more looked towards the
ground, and the clerk winked slily at Mr. Pickwick, as if to intimate
that some exquisite piece of humour was going forward, though what it
was Mr. Pickwick could not for the life of him divine.
"Step in, Mr. Pickwick," said Lowten. "Well, will you leave a message,
Mr. Watty, or will you call again?"
"Ask him to be so kind as to leave out word what has been done in my
business," said the man; "for God's sake don't neglect it, Mr. Lowten."
"No, no; I won't forget it," replied the clerk. "Walk in, Mr. Pickwick.
Good morning, Mr. Watty; it's a fine day for walking, isn't it?" Seeing
that the stranger still lingered, he beckoned Sam Weller to follow his
master in, and shut the door in his face.
"There never was such a pestering bankrupt as that since the world
began, I do believe!" said Lowten, throwing down his pen with the air
of an injured man. "His affairs haven't been in Chancery quite four
years yet, and I'm d--d if he don't come worrying here twice a week.
Step this way, Mr. Pickwick. Perker _is_ in, and he'll see you, I know.
Devilish cold," he added, pettishly, "standing at that door, wasting
one's time with such seedy vagabonds!" Having very vehemently stirred a
particularly large fire with a particularly small poker, the clerk led
the way to his principal's private room, and announced Mr. Pickwick.
"Ah, my dear sir," said little Mr. Perker, bustling up from his chair.
"Well, my dear sir, and what's the news about your matter, eh? Anything
more about our friends in Freeman's Court? They've not been sleeping,
_I_ know that. Ah, they're smart fellows; very smart indeed."
