"Me!" exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass.
"It's only a _subpoena_ in Bardell and Pickwick on behalf of the
plaintiff," replied Mr. Jackson, singling out one of the slips of
paper, and producing a shilling from his waistcoat pocket. "It'll come
on, in the settens after Term; fourteenth of Febooary, we expect; we've
marked it a special jury cause, and it's only ten down the paper.
That's yours, Mr. Snodgrass." As Jackson said this he presented the
parchment before the eyes of Mr. Snodgrass, and slipped the paper and
the shilling into his hand.
Mr. Tupman had witnessed this process in silent astonishment, when
Jackson, turning sharply upon him, said:
"I think I ain't mistaken when I say your name's Tupman, am I?"
Mr. Tupman looked at Mr. Pickwick; but, perceiving no encouragement in
that gentleman's widely opened eyes to deny his name, said:
"Yes, my name _is_ Tupman, sir."
"And that other gentleman's Mr. Winkle, I think?" said Jackson.
Mr. Winkle faltered out a reply in the affirmative; and both gentlemen
were forthwith invested with a slip of paper, and a shilling each, by
the dexterous Mr. Jackson.
"Now," said Jackson, "I'm afraid you'll think me rather troublesome,
but I want somebody else, if it ain't inconvenient. I _have_ Samuel
Weller's name here, Mr. Pickwick."
"Send my servant here, waiter," said Mr. Pickwick. The waiter retired,
considerably astonished, and Mr. Pickwick motioned Jackson to a seat.
There was a painful pause, which was at length broken by the innocent
defendant.
"I suppose, sir," said Mr. Pickwick, his indignation rising while he
spoke; "I suppose, sir, that it is the intention of your employers to
seek to criminate me upon the testimony of my own friends?"
Mr. Jackson struck his forefinger several times against the left side
of his nose, to intimate that he was not there to disclose the secrets
of the prison-house, and playfully rejoined:
"Not knowin', can't say."
"For what other reason, sir," pursued Mr. Pickwick, "are these
subpoenas served upon them, if not for this?"
"Very good plant, Mr. Pickwick," replied Jackson, slowly shaking his
head. "But it won't do. No harm in trying, but there's little to be got
out of me."
Here Mr. Jackson smiled once more upon the company, and, applying his
left thumb to the tip of his nose, worked a visionary coffee-mill with
his right hand: thereby performing a very graceful piece of pantomime
(then much in vogue, but now, unhappily, almost obsolete) which was
familiarly denominated "taking a grinder."
"No, no, Mr. Pickwick," said Jackson, in conclusion; "Perker's people
must guess what we've served these subpoenas for. If they can't, they
must wait till the action comes on, and then they'll find out."
Mr. Pickwick bestowed a look of excessive disgust on his unwelcome
visitor, and would probably have hurled some tremendous anathema at the
heads of Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, had not Sam's entrance at the instant
interrupted him.
"Samuel Weller?" said Mr. Jackson, inquiringly.
"Vun o' the truest things as you've said for many a long year," replied
Sam, in a most composed manner.
