Caleb and his daughter were at work together in their usual
working-room, which served them for their ordinary living-room as well;
and a strange place it was. There were houses in it, finished and
unfinished, for Dolls of all stations in life. Suburban tenements for
Dolls of moderate means; kitchens and single apartments for Dolls of the
lower classes; capital town residences for Dolls of high estate. Some of
these establishments were already furnished according to estimate, with
a view to the convenience of Dolls of limited income; others could be
fitted on the most expensive scale, at a moment's notice, from whole
shelves of chairs and tables, sofas, bedsteads, and upholstery. The
nobility and gentry and public in general, for whose accommodation these
tenements were designed, lay here and there, in baskets, staring
straight up at the ceiling; but in denoting their degrees in society,
and confining them to their respective stations (which experience shows
to be lamentably difficult in real life), the makers of these Dolls had
far improved on Nature, who is often froward and perverse; for they, not
resting on such arbitrary marks as satin, cotton print, and bits of rag,
had superadded striking personal differences which allowed of no
mistake. Thus, the Doll-lady of distinction had wax limbs of perfect
symmetry; but only she and her compeers. The next grade in the social
scale being made of leather, and the next of coarse linen stuff. As to
the common people, they had just so many matches out of tinder-boxes for
their arms and legs, and there they were--established in their sphere at
once, beyond the possibility of getting out of it.
There were various other samples of his handicraft besides Dolls in
Caleb Plummer's room. There were Noah's arks, in which the Birds and
Beasts were an uncommonly tight fit, I assure you; though they could be
crammed in, anyhow, at the roof, and rattled and shaken into the
smallest compass. By a bold poetical licence, most of these Noah's arks
had knockers on the doors; inconsistent appendages, perhaps, as
suggestive of morning callers and a Postman, yet a pleasant finish to
the outside of the building. There were scores of melancholy little
carts, which, when the wheels went round, performed most doleful music.
Many small fiddles, drums, and other instruments of torture; no end of
cannon, shields, swords, spears, and guns. There were little tumblers in
red breeches, incessantly swarming up high obstacles of red tape, and
coming down, head first, on the other side; and there were innumerable
old gentlemen of respectable, not to say venerable appearance, insanely
flying over horizontal pegs, inserted, for the purpose, in their own
street-doors. There were beasts of all sorts; horses, in particular, of
every breed, from the spotted barrel on four pegs with a small tippet
for a mane, to the thorough-bred rocker on his highest mettle. As it
would have been hard to count the dozens upon dozens of grotesque
figures that were ever ready to commit all sorts of absurdities on the
turning of a handle, so it would have been no easy task to mention any
human folly, vice, or weakness that had not its type, immediate or
remote, in Caleb Plummer's room. And not in an exaggerated form, for
very little handles will move men and women to as strange performances
as any Toy was ever made to undertake.
