They were very beautiful to look upon. Two better faces for a fireside,
never made a fireside bright and sacred. Something of the difference
between them had been softened down in three years' time; and enthroned
upon the clear brow of the younger sister, looking through her eyes,
and thrilling in her voice, was the same earnest nature that her own
motherless youth had ripened in the elder sister long ago. But she
still appeared at once the lovelier and weaker of the two; still seemed
to rest her head upon her sister's breast, and put her trust in her, and
look into her eyes for counsel and reliance. Those loving eyes, so calm,
serene, and cheerful, as of old.
"'And being in her own home,'" read Marion, from the book; "'her home
made exquisitely dear by these remembrances, she now began to know
that the great trial of her heart must soon come on, and could not be
delayed. Oh Home, our comforter and friend when others fall away, to
part with whom, at any step between the cradle and the grave--'"
"Marion, my love!" said Grace.
"Why, Puss!" exclaimed her father, "what's the matter?"
She put her hand upon the hand her sister stretched towards her, and
read on; her voice still faltering and trembling, though she made an
effort to command it when thus interrupted.
"'To part with whom, at any step between the cradle and the grave,
is always sorrowful. Oh Home, so true to us, so often slighted in
return, be lenient to them that turn away from thee, and do not haunt
their erring footsteps too reproachfully! Let no kind looks, no
well-remembered smiles, be seen upon thy phantom face. Let no ray of
affection, welcome, gentleness, forbearance, cordiality, shine from thy
white head. Let no old loving word or tone rise up in judgment against
thy deserter; but if thou canst look harshly and severely, do, in mercy
to the Penitent!'"
"Dear Marion, read no more to-night," said Grace--for she was weeping.
"I cannot," she replied, and closed the book. "The words seem all on
fire!"
The Doctor was amused at this; and laughed as he patted her on the head.
"What! overcome by a story-book!" said Doctor Jeddler. "Print and paper!
Well, well, it's all one. It's as rational to make a serious matter of
print and paper as of anything else. But dry your eyes, love, dry your
eyes. I dare say the heroine has got home again long ago, and made it up
all round--and if she hasn't, a real home is only four walls; and a
fictitious one, mere rags and ink. What's the matter now?"
"It's only me, Mister," said Clemency, putting in her head at the door.
"And what's the matter with _you_?" said the Doctor.
"Oh, bless you, nothing an't the matter with me," returned Clemency--and
truly too, to judge from her well-soaped face, in which there gleamed as
usual the very soul of good humour, which, ungainly as she was, made her
quite engaging. Abrasions on the elbows are not generally understood,
it is true, to range within that class of personal charms called
beauty-spots. But it is better, going through the world, to have the
arms chafed in that narrow passage, than the temper: and Clemency's was
sound and whole as any beauty's in the land.
