Meg looked towards him and saw that he had elaborately stationed himself
behind the chair of their male visitor, where with many mysterious
gestures he was holding up the sixpence he had earned.
‘I see, my dear,’ said Trotty, ‘as I was coming in, half an ounce of tea
lying somewhere on the stairs; and I’m pretty sure there was a bit of
bacon too.  As I don’t remember where it was exactly, I’ll go myself and
try to find ’em.’
With this inscrutable artifice, Toby withdrew to purchase the viands he
had spoken of, for ready money, at Mrs. Chickenstalker’s; and presently
came back, pretending he had not been able to find them, at first, in the
dark.
‘But here they are at last,’ said Trotty, setting out the tea-things,
‘all correct!  I was pretty sure it was tea, and a rasher.  So it is.
Meg, my pet, if you’ll just make the tea, while your unworthy father
toasts the bacon, we shall be ready, immediate.  It’s a curious
circumstance,’ said Trotty, proceeding in his cookery, with the
assistance of the toasting-fork, ‘curious, but well known to my friends,
that I never care, myself, for rashers, nor for tea.  I like to see other
people enjoy ’em,’ said Trotty, speaking very loud, to impress the fact
upon his guest, ‘but to me, as food, they’re disagreeable.’
Yet Trotty sniffed the savour of the hissing bacon—ah!—as if he liked it;
and when he poured the boiling water in the tea-pot, looked lovingly down
into the depths of that snug cauldron, and suffered the fragrant steam to
curl about his nose, and wreathe his head and face in a thick cloud.
However, for all this, he neither ate nor drank, except at the very
beginning, a mere morsel for form’s sake, which he appeared to eat with
infinite relish, but declared was perfectly uninteresting to him.
No.  Trotty’s occupation was, to see Will Fern and Lilian eat and drink;
and so was Meg’s.  And never did spectators at a city dinner or court
banquet find such high delight in seeing others feast: although it were a
monarch or a pope: as those two did, in looking on that night.  Meg
smiled at Trotty, Trotty laughed at Meg.  Meg shook her head, and made
belief to clap her hands, applauding Trotty; Trotty conveyed, in
dumb-show, unintelligible narratives of how and when and where he had
found their visitors, to Meg; and they were happy.  Very happy.
‘Although,’ thought Trotty, sorrowfully, as he watched Meg’s face; ‘that
match is broken off, I see!’
‘Now, I’ll tell you what,’ said Trotty after tea.  ‘The little one, she
sleeps with Meg, I know.’
‘With good Meg!’ cried the child, caressing her.  ‘With Meg.’
‘That’s right,’ said Trotty.  ‘And I shouldn’t wonder if she kiss Meg’s
father, won’t she?  _I’m_ Meg’s father.’
Mightily delighted Trotty was, when the child went timidly towards him,
and having kissed him, fell back upon Meg again.
‘She’s as sensible as Solomon,’ said Trotty.  ‘Here we come and here
we—no, we don’t—I don’t mean that—I—what was I saying, Meg, my precious?’
