“In nothing else?”
The Phantom held its peace.
But having stood before him, silent, for a little while, it moved towards
the fire; then stopped.
“Decide!” it said, “before the opportunity is lost!”
“A moment!  I call Heaven to witness,” said the agitated man, “that I
have never been a hater of any kind,—never morose, indifferent, or hard,
to anything around me.  If, living here alone, I have made too much of
all that was and might have been, and too little of what is, the evil, I
believe, has fallen on me, and not on others.  But, if there were poison
in my body, should I not, possessed of antidotes and knowledge how to use
them, use them?  If there be poison in my mind, and through this fearful
shadow I can cast it out, shall I not cast it out?”
“Say,” said the Spectre, “is it done?”
“A moment longer!” he answered hurriedly.  “_I would forget it if I
could_!  Have _I_ thought that, alone, or has it been the thought of
thousands upon thousands, generation after generation?  All human memory
is fraught with sorrow and trouble.  My memory is as the memory of other
men, but other men have not this choice.  Yes, I close the bargain.  Yes!
I WILL forget my sorrow, wrong, and trouble!”
“Say,” said the Spectre, “is it done?”
“It is!”
“IT IS.  And take this with you, man whom I here renounce!  The gift that
I have given, you shall give again, go where you will.  Without
recovering yourself the power that you have yielded up, you shall
henceforth destroy its like in all whom you approach.  Your wisdom has
discovered that the memory of sorrow, wrong, and trouble is the lot of
all mankind, and that mankind would be the happier, in its other
memories, without it.  Go!  Be its benefactor!  Freed from such
remembrance, from this hour, carry involuntarily the blessing of such
freedom with you.  Its diffusion is inseparable and inalienable from you.
Go!  Be happy in the good you have won, and in the good you do!”
The Phantom, which had held its bloodless hand above him while it spoke,
as if in some unholy invocation, or some ban; and which had gradually
advanced its eyes so close to his, that he could see how they did not
participate in the terrible smile upon its face, but were a fixed,
unalterable, steady horror melted before him and was gone.
As he stood rooted to the spot, possessed by fear and wonder, and
imagining he heard repeated in melancholy echoes, dying away fainter and
fainter, the words, “Destroy its like in all whom you approach!” a shrill
cry reached his ears.  It came, not from the passages beyond the door,
but from another part of the old building, and sounded like the cry of
some one in the dark who had lost the way.
He looked confusedly upon his hands and limbs, as if to be assured of his
identity, and then shouted in reply, loudly and wildly; for there was a
strangeness and terror upon him, as if he too were lost.
