“Give me a drop of water,” said Mrs. Tetterby, struggling with herself,
“and don’t speak to me for the present, or take any notice of me.  Don’t
do it!”
Mr. Tetterby having administered the water, turned suddenly on the
unlucky Johnny (who was full of sympathy), and demanded why he was
wallowing there, in gluttony and idleness, instead of coming forward with
the baby, that the sight of her might revive his mother.  Johnny
immediately approached, borne down by its weight; but Mrs. Tetterby
holding out her hand to signify that she was not in a condition to bear
that trying appeal to her feelings, he was interdicted from advancing
another inch, on pain of perpetual hatred from all his dearest
connections; and accordingly retired to his stool again, and crushed
himself as before.
After a pause, Mrs. Tetterby said she was better now, and began to laugh.
“My little woman,” said her husband, dubiously, “are you quite sure
you’re better?  Or are you, Sophia, about to break out in a fresh
direction?”
“No, ’Dolphus, no,” replied his wife.  “I’m quite myself.”  With that,
settling her hair, and pressing the palms of her hands upon her eyes, she
laughed again.
“What a wicked fool I was, to think so for a moment!” said Mrs. Tetterby.
“Come nearer, ’Dolphus, and let me ease my mind, and tell you what I
mean.  Let me tell you all about it.”
Mr. Tetterby bringing his chair closer, Mrs. Tetterby laughed again, gave
him a hug, and wiped her eyes.
“You know, Dolphus, my dear,” said Mrs. Tetterby, “that when I was
single, I might have given myself away in several directions.  At one
time, four after me at once; two of them were sons of Mars.”
“We’re all sons of Ma’s, my dear,” said Mr. Tetterby, “jointly with
Pa’s.”
“I don’t mean that,” replied his wife, “I mean soldiers—serjeants.”
“Oh!” said Mr. Tetterby.
“Well, ’Dolphus, I’m sure I never think of such things now, to regret
them; and I’m sure I’ve got as good a husband, and would do as much to
prove that I was fond of him, as—”
“As any little woman in the world,” said Mr. Tetterby.  “Very good.
_Very_ good.”
If Mr. Tetterby had been ten feet high, he could not have expressed a
gentler consideration for Mrs. Tetterby’s fairy-like stature; and if Mrs.
Tetterby had been two feet high, she could not have felt it more
appropriately her due.
“But you see, ’Dolphus,” said Mrs. Tetterby, “this being Christmas-time,
when all people who can, make holiday, and when all people who have got
money, like to spend some, I did, somehow, get a little out of sorts when
I was in the streets just now.  There were so many things to be sold—such
delicious things to eat, such fine things to look at, such delightful
things to have—and there was so much calculating and calculating
necessary, before I durst lay out a sixpence for the commonest thing; and
the basket was so large, and wanted so much in it; and my stock of money
was so small, and would go such a little way;—you hate me, don’t you,
’Dolphus?”
