When she came to herself, or when Miss Betsey had restored her,
whichever it was, she found the latter standing at the window. The
twilight was by this time shading down into darkness; and dimly as they
saw each other, they could not have done that without the aid of the
fire.
"Well?" said Miss Betsey, coming back to her chair, as if she had only
been taking a casual look at the prospect; "and when do you expect----"
"I am all in a tremble," faltered my mother. "I don't know what's the
matter. I shall die, I am sure!"
"No, no, no," said Miss Betsey. "Have some tea."
"Oh dear me, dear me, do you think it will do me any good?" cried my
mother in a helpless manner.
"Of course it will," said Miss Betsey. "It's nothing but fancy. What do
you call your girl?"
"I don't know that it will be a girl, yet, ma'am," said my mother
innocently.
"Bless the Baby!" exclaimed Miss Betsey, unconsciously quoting the
second sentiment of the pincushion in the drawer up-stairs, but
applying it to my mother instead of me, "I don't mean that. I mean your
servant-girl."
"Peggotty," said my mother.
"Peggotty!" repeated Miss Betsey, with some indignation. "Do you mean to
say, child, that any human being has gone into a Christian church, and
got herself named Peggotty?"
"It's her surname," said my mother, faintly. "Mr. Copperfield called her
by it, because her Christian name was the same as mine."
"Here! Peggotty!" cried Miss Betsey, opening the parlor-door. "Tea. Your
mistress is a little unwell. Don't dawdle."
Having issued this mandate with as much potentiality as if she had been
a recognised authority in the house ever since it had been a house, and
having looked out to confront the amazed Peggotty coming along the
passage with a candle at the sound of a strange voice, Miss Betsey shut
the door again, and sat down as before: with her feet on the fender, the
skirt of her dress tucked up, and her hands folded on one knee.
"You were speaking about its being a girl," said Miss Betsey. "I have no
doubt it will be a girl. I have a presentiment that it must be a girl.
Now child, from the moment of the birth of this girl--"
"Perhaps boy," my mother took the liberty of putting in.
"I tell you I have a presentiment that it must be a girl," returned Miss
Betsey. "Don't contradict. From the moment of this girl's birth, child,
I intend to be her friend. I intend to be her godmother, and I beg
you'll call her Betsey Trotwood Copperfield. There must be no mistakes
in life with _this_ Betsey Trotwood. There must be no trifling with
_her_ affections, poor dear. She must be well brought up, and well
guarded from reposing any foolish confidences where they are not
deserved. I must make that _my_ care."
There was a twitch of Miss Betsey's head, after each of these sentences,
as if her own old wrongs were working within her, and she repressed any
plainer reference to them by strong constraint. So my mother suspected,
at least, as she observed her by the low glimmer of the fire: too much
scared by Miss Betsey, too uneasy in herself, and too subdued and
bewildered altogether, to observe anything very clearly, or to know what
to say.
