'Inspired by this idea and the sentiments it awakened, sir, and feeling
as a mutual friend that badgering, baiting, and bullying, was not the
sort of thing calculated to expand the souls and promote the social
harmony of the contending parties, I took upon myself to suggest a
course which is THE course to be adopted to the present occasion.  Will
you allow me to whisper half a syllable, sir?'
Without waiting for the permission he sought, Mr Swiveller stepped up
to the dwarf, and leaning on his shoulder and stooping down to get at
his ear, said in a voice which was perfectly audible to all present,
'The watch-word to the old min is--fork.'
'Is what?' demanded Quilp.
'Is fork, sir, fork,' replied Mr Swiveller slapping his pocket. 'You
are awake, sir?'
The dwarf nodded. Mr Swiveller drew back and nodded likewise, then drew
a little further back and nodded again, and so on. By these means he in
time reached the door, where he gave a great cough to attract the
dwarf's attention and gain an opportunity of expressing in dumb show,
the closest confidence and most inviolable secrecy.  Having performed
the serious pantomime that was necessary for the due conveyance of
these idea, he cast himself upon his friend's track, and vanished.
'Humph!' said the dwarf with a sour look and a shrug of his shoulders,
'so much for dear relations. Thank God I acknowledge none! Nor need you
either,' he added, turning to the old man, 'if you were not as weak as
a reed, and nearly as senseless.'
'What would you have me do?' he retorted in a kind of helpless
desperation. 'It is easy to talk and sneer. What would you have me do?'
'What would I do if I was in your case?' said the dwarf.
'Something violent, no doubt.'
'You're right there,' returned the little man, highly gratified by the
compliment, for such he evidently considered it; and grinning like a
devil as he rubbed his dirty hands together. 'Ask Mrs Quilp, pretty Mrs
Quilp, obedient, timid, loving Mrs Quilp. But that reminds me--I have
left her all alone, and she will be anxious and know not a moment's
peace till I return. I know she's always in that condition when I'm
away, thought she doesn't dare to say so, unless I lead her on and tell
her she may speak freely and I won't be angry with her.  Oh!
well-trained Mrs Quilp.'
The creature appeared quite horrible with his monstrous head and little
body, as he rubbed his hands slowly round, and round, and round
again--with something fantastic even in his manner of performing this
slight action--and, dropping his shaggy brows and cocking his chin in
the air, glanced upward with a stealthy look of exultation that an imp
might have copied and appropriated to himself.
'Here,' he said, putting his hand into his breast and sidling up to the
old man as he spoke; 'I brought it myself for fear of accidents, as,
being in gold, it was something large and heavy for Nell to carry in
her bag. She need be accustomed to such loads betimes though,
neighbor, for she will carry weight when you are dead.'
