"And the nutmeg-grater?" inquired the head of the Firm.
"The grater says," returned Clemency, "Do as you--wold--be--done by."
"'Do, or you'll be done brown,' you mean," said Mr. Snitchey.
"I don't understand," retorted Clemency, shaking her head vaguely. "I
a'n't no lawyer."
"I am afraid that if she was, Doctor," said Mr. Snitchey, turning to
him suddenly, as if to anticipate any effect that might otherwise be
consequent on this retort, "she'd find it to be the golden rule of half
her clients. They are serious enough in that--whimsical as your world
is--and lay the blame on us afterwards. We, in our profession, are
little else than mirrors after all, Mr. Alfred; but we are generally
consulted by angry and quarrelsome people, who are not in their best
looks; and it's rather hard to quarrel with us if we reflect unpleasant
aspects. I think," said Mr. Snitchey, "that I speak for Self and
Craggs?"
"Decidedly," said Craggs.
"And so, if Mr. Britain will oblige us with a mouthful of ink," said Mr.
Snitchey, returning to the papers, "we'll sign, seal, and deliver as
soon as possible, or the coach will be coming past before we know where
we are."
If one might judge from his appearance, there was every probability of
the coach coming past before Mr. Britain knew where _he_ was; for he
stood in a state of abstraction, mentally balancing the Doctor against
the lawyers, and the lawyers against the Doctor, and their clients
against both; and engaged in feeble attempts to make the thimble and
nutmeg-grater (a new idea to him) square with anybody's system of
philosophy; and, in short, bewildering himself as much as ever his
great namesake has done with theories and schools. But Clemency, who
was his good Genius--though he had the meanest possible opinion of her
understanding, by reason of her seldom troubling herself with abstract
speculations, and being always at hand to do the right thing at the
right time--having produced the ink in a twinkling, tendered him the
further service of recalling him to himself by the application of her
elbows; with which gentle flappers she so jogged his memory, in a more
literal construction of that phrase than usual, that he soon became
quite fresh and brisk.
How he labored under an apprehension not uncommon to persons in his
degree, to whom the use of pen and ink is an event, that he couldn't
append his name to a document, not of his own writing, without
committing himself in some shadowy manner, or somehow signing away
vague and enormous sums of money; and how he approached the deeds under
protest, and by dint of the Doctor's coercion, and insisted on pausing
to look at them before writing (the cramped hand, to say nothing of the
phraseology, being so much Chinese to him), and also on turning them
round to see whether there was anything fraudulent, underneath; and how,
having signed his name, he became desolate as one who had parted with
his property and rights; I want the time to tell. Also, how the blue bag
containing his signature, afterwards had a mysterious interest for him,
and he couldn't leave it; also, how Clemency Newcome, in an ecstasy of
laughter at the idea of her own importance and dignity, brooded over the
whole table with her two elbows like a spread eagle, and reposed her
head upon her left arm as a preliminary to the formation of certain
cabalistic characters, which required a deal of ink, and imaginary
counterparts whereof she executed at the same time with her tongue.
Also how, having once tasted ink, she became thirsty in that regard, as
tigers are said to be after tasting another sort of fluid, and wanted to
sign everything, and put her name in all kinds of places. In brief, the
Doctor was discharged of his trust and all its responsibilities; and
Alfred, taking it on himself, was fairly started on the journey of life.
