“Stay!” said Mr. Redlaw, resuming his place at the table, more, it would
have seemed from his manner, to reassure the old keeper, than in any
remembrance of his own appetite.  “Spare me another moment, Philip.
William, you were going to tell me something to your excellent wife’s
honour.  It will not be disagreeable to her to hear you praise her.  What
was it?”
“Why, that’s where it is, you see, sir,” returned Mr. William Swidger,
looking towards his wife in considerable embarrassment.  “Mrs. William’s
got her eye upon me.”
“But you’re not afraid of Mrs. William’s eye?”
“Why, no, sir,” returned Mr. Swidger, “that’s what I say myself.  It
wasn’t made to be afraid of.  It wouldn’t have been made so mild, if that
was the intention.  But I wouldn’t like to—Milly!—him, you know.  Down in
the Buildings.”
Mr. William, standing behind the table, and rummaging disconcertedly
among the objects upon it, directed persuasive glances at Mrs. William,
and secret jerks of his head and thumb at Mr. Redlaw, as alluring her
towards him.
“Him, you know, my love,” said Mr. William.  “Down in the Buildings.
Tell, my dear!  You’re the works of Shakespeare in comparison with
myself.  Down in the Buildings, you know, my love.—Student.”
“Student?” repeated Mr. Redlaw, raising his head.
“That’s what I say, sir!” cried Mr. William, in the utmost animation of
assent.  “If it wasn’t the poor student down in the Buildings, why should
you wish to hear it from Mrs. William’s lips?  Mrs. William, my
dear—Buildings.”
“I didn’t know,” said Milly, with a quiet frankness, free from any haste
or confusion, “that William had said anything about it, or I wouldn’t
have come.  I asked him not to.  It’s a sick young gentleman, sir—and
very poor, I am afraid—who is too ill to go home this holiday-time, and
lives, unknown to any one, in but a common kind of lodging for a
gentleman, down in Jerusalem Buildings.  That’s all, sir.”
“Why have I never heard of him?” said the Chemist, rising hurriedly.
“Why has he not made his situation known to me?  Sick!—give me my hat and
cloak.  Poor!—what house?—what number?”
“Oh, you mustn’t go there, sir,” said Milly, leaving her father-in-law,
and calmly confronting him with her collected little face and folded
hands.
“Not go there?”
“Oh dear, no!” said Milly, shaking her head as at a most manifest and
self-evident impossibility.  “It couldn’t be thought of!”
“What do you mean?  Why not?”
“Why, you see, sir,” said Mr. William Swidger, persuasively and
confidentially, “that’s what I say.  Depend upon it, the young gentleman
would never have made his situation known to one of his own sex.  Mrs.
Williams has got into his confidence, but that’s quite different.  They
all confide in Mrs. William; they all trust _her_.  A man, sir, couldn’t
have got a whisper out of him; but woman, sir, and Mrs. William
combined—!”
“There is good sense and delicacy in what you say, William,” returned Mr.
Redlaw, observant of the gentle and composed face at his shoulder.  And
laying his finger on his lip, he secretly put his purse into her hand.
