Mrs. Tetterby, at the same time, laid the cloth, but rather as if she
were punishing the table than preparing the family supper; hitting it
unnecessarily hard with the knives and forks, slapping it with the
plates, dinting it with the salt-cellar, and coming heavily down upon it
with the loaf.
“Ah, dear me, dear me, dear me!” said Mrs. Tetterby.  “That’s the way the
world goes!”
“My duck,” returned her husband, looking round again, “you said that
before.  Which is the way the world goes?”
“Oh, nothing!” said Mrs. Tetterby.
“Sophia!” remonstrated her husband, “you said _that_ before, too.”
“Well, I’ll say it again if you like,” returned Mrs. Tetterby.  “Oh
nothing—there!  And again if you like, oh nothing—there!  And again if
you like, oh nothing—now then!”
Mr. Tetterby brought his eye to bear upon the partner of his bosom, and
said, in mild astonishment:
“My little woman, what has put you out?”
“I’m sure _I_ don’t know,” she retorted.  “Don’t ask me.  Who said I was
put out at all?  _I_ never did.”
Mr. Tetterby gave up the perusal of his newspaper as a bad job, and,
taking a slow walk across the room, with his hands behind him, and his
shoulders raised—his gait according perfectly with the resignation of his
manner—addressed himself to his two eldest offspring.
“Your supper will be ready in a minute, ’Dolphus,” said Mr. Tetterby.
“Your mother has been out in the wet, to the cook’s shop, to buy it.  It
was very good of your mother so to do.  _You_ shall get some supper too,
very soon, Johnny.  Your mother’s pleased with you, my man, for being so
attentive to your precious sister.”
Mrs. Tetterby, without any remark, but with a decided subsidence of her
animosity towards the table, finished her preparations, and took, from
her ample basket, a substantial slab of hot pease pudding wrapped in
paper, and a basin covered with a saucer, which, on being uncovered, sent
forth an odour so agreeable, that the three pair of eyes in the two beds
opened wide and fixed themselves upon the banquet.  Mr. Tetterby, without
regarding this tacit invitation to be seated, stood repeating slowly,
“Yes, yes, your supper will be ready in a minute, ’Dolphus—your mother
went out in the wet, to the cook’s shop, to buy it.  It was very good of
your mother so to do”—until Mrs. Tetterby, who had been exhibiting sundry
tokens of contrition behind him, caught him round the neck, and wept.
“Oh, Dolphus!” said Mrs. Tetterby, “how could I go and behave so?”
This reconciliation affected Adolphus the younger and Johnny to that
degree, that they both, as with one accord, raised a dismal cry, which
had the effect of immediately shutting up the round eyes in the beds, and
utterly routing the two remaining little Tetterbys, just then stealing in
from the adjoining closet to see what was going on in the eating way.
“I am sure, ’Dolphus,” sobbed Mrs. Tetterby, “coming home, I had no more
idea than a child unborn—”
