I have been so accustomed to associate you with my pleasantest and
happiest thoughts, and with my leisure hours, that I rush at once into
full confidence with you, and fall, as it were naturally, and by the
very laws of gravity, into your open arms. Questions come thronging to
my pen as to the lips of people who meet after long hoping to do so. I
don't know what to say first or what to leave unsaid, and am constantly
disposed to break off and tell you again how glad I am this moment has
arrived.
My dear Washington Irving, I cannot thank you enough for your cordial
and generous praise, or tell you what deep and lasting gratification it
has given me. I hope to have many letters from you, and to exchange a
frequent correspondence. I send this to say so. After the first two or
three I shall settle down into a connected style, and become gradually
rational.
You know what the feeling is, after having written a letter, sealed it,
and sent it off. I shall picture your reading this, and answering it
before it has lain one night in the post-office. Ten to one that before
the fastest packet could reach New York I shall be writing again.
Do you suppose the post-office clerks care to receive letters? I have my
doubts. They get into a dreadful habit of indifference. A postman, I
imagine, is quite callous. Conceive his delivering one to himself,
without being startled by a preliminary double knock!
                                          Always your faithful Friend.
FOOTNOTES:
[12] A Dissenting minister, once himself a workhouse boy, and writing on
the character of Oliver Twist. This letter was published in "Harper's
New Monthly Magazine," in 1862.
[13] This, and all other Letters addressed to the Countess of
Blessington, were printed in "Literary Life and Correspondence of the
Countess of Blessington."
[14] The death of his correspondent's twin-brother, Willis Gaylord
Clark.
[15] On the occasion of the sudden death of Mrs. Hogarth's son, George.
[16] This, and all other Letters addressed to Mr. Washington Irving,
were printed in "The Life and Letters of Washington Irving," edited by
his nephew, Pierre M. Irving.
1842.
[Sidenote: Professor Felton.]
               FULLER'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON, _Monday, March 14th, 1842._
MY DEAR FELTON,[17]
I was more delighted than I can possibly tell you, to receive (last
Saturday night) your welcome letter. We and the oysters missed you
terribly in New York. You carried away with you more than half the
delight and pleasure of my New World; and I heartily wish you could
bring it back again.
There are very interesting men in this place--highly interesting, of
course--but it's not a comfortable place; is it? If spittle could wait
at table we should be nobly attended, but as that property has not been
imparted to it in the present state of mechanical science, we are rather
lonely and orphan-like, in respect of "being looked arter." A blithe
black was introduced on our arrival, as our peculiar and especial
attendant. He is the only gentleman in the town who has a peculiar
delicacy in intruding upon my valuable time. It usually takes seven
rings and a threatening message from ---- to produce him; and when he
comes he goes to fetch something, and, forgetting it by the way, comes
back no more.
