'I hope she did it pretty well,' says Edwin rather doubtfully.
'O, it was excellent!--I wouldn't dance with you, you know.'
Edwin scarcely seems to see the force of this; begs to know if he may
take the liberty to ask why?
'Because I was so tired of you,' returns Rosa.  But she quickly adds, and
pleadingly too, seeing displeasure in his face: 'Dear Eddy, you were just
as tired of me, you know.'
'Did I say so, Rosa?'
'Say so!  Do you ever say so?  No, you only showed it.  O, she did it so
well!' cries Rosa, in a sudden ecstasy with her counterfeit betrothed.
'It strikes me that she must be a devilish impudent girl,' says Edwin
Drood.  'And so, Pussy, you have passed your last birthday in this old
house.'
'Ah, yes!' Rosa clasps her hands, looks down with a sigh, and shakes her
head.
'You seem to be sorry, Rosa.'
'I am sorry for the poor old place.  Somehow, I feel as if it would miss
me, when I am gone so far away, so young.'
'Perhaps we had better stop short, Rosa?'
She looks up at him with a swift bright look; next moment shakes her
head, sighs, and looks down again.
'That is to say, is it, Pussy, that we are both resigned?'
She nods her head again, and after a short silence, quaintly bursts out
with: 'You know we must be married, and married from here, Eddy, or the
poor girls will be so dreadfully disappointed!'
For the moment there is more of compassion, both for her and for himself,
in her affianced husband's face, than there is of love.  He checks the
look, and asks: 'Shall I take you out for a walk, Rosa dear?'
Rosa dear does not seem at all clear on this point, until her face, which
has been comically reflective, brightens.  'O, yes, Eddy; let us go for a
walk!  And I tell you what we'll do.  You shall pretend that you are
engaged to somebody else, and I'll pretend that I am not engaged to
anybody, and then we shan't quarrel.'
'Do you think that will prevent our falling out, Rosa?'
'I know it will.  Hush!  Pretend to look out of window--Mrs. Tisher!'
Through a fortuitous concourse of accidents, the matronly Tisher heaves
in sight, says, in rustling through the room like the legendary ghost of
a dowager in silken skirts: 'I hope I see Mr. Drood well; though I
needn't ask, if I may judge from his complexion.  I trust I disturb no
one; but there _was_ a paper-knife--O, thank you, I am sure!' and
disappears with her prize.
'One other thing you must do, Eddy, to oblige me,' says Rosebud.  'The
moment we get into the street, you must put me outside, and keep close to
the house yourself--squeeze and graze yourself against it.'
'By all means, Rosa, if you wish it.  Might I ask why?'
'O! because I don't want the girls to see you.'
