[20] His complaint was that the reviewer of his "American Notes," in the
number for January, 1843, had represented him as having gone to America
as a missionary in the cause of international copyright--an allegation
which Charles Dickens repudiated, and which was rectified in the way he
himself suggested.
1844.
[Sidenote: Professor Felton.]
                      DEVONSHIRE TERRACE, LONDON, _January 2nd, 1844._
MY VERY DEAR FELTON,
You are a prophet, and had best retire from business straightway.
Yesterday morning, New Year's Day, when I walked into my little workroom
after breakfast, and was looking out of window at the snow in the
garden--not seeing it particularly well in consequence of some
staggering suggestions of last night, whereby I was beset--the postman
came to the door with a knock, for which I denounced him from my heart.
Seeing your hand upon the cover of a letter which he brought, I
immediately blessed him, presented him with a glass of whisky, inquired
after his family (they are all well), and opened the despatch with a
moist and oystery twinkle in my eye. And on the very day from which the
new year dates, I read your New Year congratulations as punctually as if
you lived in the next house. Why don't you?
Now, if instantly on the receipt of this you will send a free and
independent citizen down to the Cunard wharf at Boston, you will find
that Captain Hewett, of the _Britannia_ steamship (my ship), has a small
parcel for Professor Felton of Cambridge; and in that parcel you will
find a Christmas Carol in prose; being a short story of Christmas by
Charles Dickens. Over which Christmas Carol Charles Dickens wept and
laughed and wept again, and excited himself in a most extraordinary
manner in the composition; and thinking whereof he walked about the
black streets of London, fifteen and twenty miles many a night when all
the sober folks had gone to bed. . . . Its success is most prodigious.
And by every post all manner of strangers write all manner of letters
to him about their homes and hearths, and how this same Carol is read
aloud there, and kept on a little shelf by itself. Indeed, it is the
greatest success, as I am told, that this ruffian and rascal has ever
achieved.
Forster is out again; and if he don't go in again, after the manner in
which we have been keeping Christmas, he must be very strong indeed.
Such dinings, such dancings, such conjurings, such blindman's-buffings,
such theatre-goings, such kissings-out of old years and kissings-in of
new ones, never took place in these parts before. To keep the Chuzzlewit
going, and do this little book, the Carol, in the odd times between two
parts of it, was, as you may suppose, pretty tight work. But when it was
done I broke out like a madman. And if you could have seen me at a
children's party at Macready's the other night, going down a country
dance with Mrs. M., you would have thought I was a country gentleman of
independent property, residing on a tiptop farm, with the wind blowing
straight in my face every day. . . .
