"He took off his coat, put down his lantern, and getting into the
unfinished grave, worked at it for an hour or so, with right good
will. But the earth was hardened with the frost, and it was no very
easy matter to break it up, and shovel it out; and although there
was a moon, it was a very young one, and shed little light upon the
grave, which was in the shadow of the church. At any other time, these
obstacles would have made Gabriel Grub very moody and miserable, but
he was so well pleased with having stopped the small boy's singing,
that he took little heed of the scanty progress he had made, and looked
down into the grave, when he had finished work for the night, with grim
satisfaction: murmuring as he gathered up his things:
   'Brave lodgings for one, brave lodgings for one,
    A few feet of cold earth, when life is done;
    A stone at the head, a stone at the feet,
    A rich, juicy meal for the worms to eat;
    Rank grass over head, and damp clay around,
    Brave lodgings for one, these, in holy ground!'
"'Ho! ho!' laughed Gabriel Grub, as he sat himself down on a flat
tombstone which was a favourite resting-place of his; and drew forth
his wicker bottle. 'A coffin at Christmas! A Christmas Box. Ho! ho! ho!'
"'Ho! ho! ho!' repeated a voice which sounded close behind him.
"Gabriel paused, in some alarm, in the act of raising the wicker bottle
to his lips: and looked round. The bottom of the oldest grave about him
was not more still and quiet than the churchyard in the pale moonlight.
The cold hoar-frost glistened on the tombstones, and sparkled like rows
of gems, among the stone carvings of the old church. The snow lay hard
and crisp upon the ground; and spread over the thickly-strewn mounds of
earth, so white and smooth a cover, that it seemed as if corpses lay
there, hidden only by their winding-sheets. Not the faintest rustle
broke the profound tranquillity of the solemn scene. Sound itself
appeared to be frozen up, all was so cold and still.
"'It was the echoes,' said Gabriel Grub, raising the bottle to his lips
again.
"'It was _not_,' said a deep voice.
"Gabriel started up, and stood rooted to the spot with astonishment and
terror; for his eyes rested on a form that made his blood run cold.
"Seated on an upright tombstone, close to him, was a strange unearthly
figure, whom Gabriel felt at once, was no being of this world. His long
fantastic legs, which might have reached the ground, were cocked up,
and crossed after a quaint, fantastic fashion; his sinewy arms were
bare; and his hands rested on his knees. On his short round body, he
wore a close covering, ornamented with small slashes; a short cloak
dangled at his back; the collar was cut into curious peaks, which
served the goblin in lieu of ruff or neckerchief; and his shoes curled
up at his toes into long points. On his head he wore a broad-brimmed
sugar-loaf hat, garnished with a single feather. The hat was covered
with the white frost; and the goblin looked as if he had sat on the
same tombstone, very comfortably, for two or three hundred years. He
was sitting perfectly still; his tongue was put out, as if in derision;
and he was grinning at Gabriel Grub with such a grin as only a goblin
could call up.
