“Look at that man!  Look there!  What does he want?”
“My dear,” returned her husband, “I’ll ask him if you’ll let me go.
What’s the matter!  How you shake!”
“I saw him in the street, when I was out just now.  He looked at me, and
stood near me.  I am afraid of him.”
“Afraid of him!  Why?”
“I don’t know why—I—stop! husband!” for he was going towards the
stranger.
She had one hand pressed upon her forehead, and one upon her breast; and
there was a peculiar fluttering all over her, and a hurried unsteady
motion of her eyes, as if she had lost something.
“Are you ill, my dear?”
“What is it that is going from me again?” she muttered, in a low voice.
“What _is_ this that is going away?”
Then she abruptly answered:  “Ill?  No, I am quite well,” and stood
looking vacantly at the floor.
Her husband, who had not been altogether free from the infection of her
fear at first, and whom the present strangeness of her manner did not
tend to reassure, addressed himself to the pale visitor in the black
cloak, who stood still, and whose eyes were bent upon the ground.
“What may be your pleasure, sir,” he asked, “with us?”
“I fear that my coming in unperceived,” returned the visitor, “has
alarmed you; but you were talking and did not hear me.”
“My little woman says—perhaps you heard her say it,” returned Mr.
Tetterby, “that it’s not the first time you have alarmed her to-night.”
“I am sorry for it.  I remember to have observed her, for a few moments
only, in the street.  I had no intention of frightening her.”
As he raised his eyes in speaking, she raised hers.  It was extraordinary
to see what dread she had of him, and with what dread he observed it—and
yet how narrowly and closely.
“My name,” he said, “is Redlaw.  I come from the old college hard by.  A
young gentleman who is a student there, lodges in your house, does he
not?”
“Mr. Denham?” said Tetterby.
“Yes.”
It was a natural action, and so slight as to be hardly noticeable; but
the little man, before speaking again, passed his hand across his
forehead, and looked quickly round the room, as though he were sensible
of some change in its atmosphere.  The Chemist, instantly transferring to
him the look of dread he had directed towards the wife, stepped back, and
his face turned paler.
“The gentleman’s room,” said Tetterby, “is upstairs, sir.  There’s a more
convenient private entrance; but as you have come in here, it will save
your going out into the cold, if you’ll take this little staircase,”
showing one communicating directly with the parlour, “and go up to him
that way, if you wish to see him.”
“Yes, I wish to see him,” said the Chemist.  “Can you spare a light?”
The watchfulness of his haggard look, and the inexplicable distrust that
darkened it, seemed to trouble Mr. Tetterby.  He paused; and looking
fixedly at him in return, stood for a minute or so, like a man stupefied,
or fascinated.
