A mother writes:
    REVEREND SIR.  Amongst the many who perished on your shore was
    numbered my beloved son.  I was only just recovering from a severe
    illness, and this fearful affliction has caused a relapse, so that I
    am unable at present to go to identify the remains of the loved and
    lost.  My darling son would have been sixteen on Christmas-day next.
    He was a most amiable and obedient child, early taught the way of
    salvation.  We fondly hoped that as a British seaman he might be an
    ornament to his profession, but, ‘it is well;’ I feel assured my dear
    boy is now with the redeemed.  Oh, he did not wish to go this last
    voyage!  On the fifteenth of October, I received a letter from him
    from Melbourne, date August twelfth; he wrote in high spirits, and in
    conclusion he says: ‘Pray for a fair breeze, dear mamma, and I’ll not
    forget to whistle for it! and, God permitting, I shall see you and
    all my little pets again.  Good-bye, dear mother—good-bye, dearest
    parents.  Good-bye, dear brother.’  Oh, it was indeed an eternal
    farewell.  I do not apologise for thus writing you, for oh, my heart
    is so very sorrowful.
A husband writes:
    MY DEAR KIND SIR.  Will you kindly inform me whether there are any
    initials upon the ring and guard you have in possession, found, as
    the Standard says, last Tuesday?  Believe me, my dear sir, when I say
    that I cannot express my deep gratitude in words sufficiently for
    your kindness to me on that fearful and appalling day.  Will you tell
    me what I can do for you, and will you write me a consoling letter to
    prevent my mind from going astray?
A widow writes:
    Left in such a state as I am, my friends and I thought it best that
    my dear husband should be buried where he lies, and, much as I should
    have liked to have had it otherwise, I must submit.  I feel, from all
    I have heard of you, that you will see it done decently and in order.
    Little does it signify to us, when the soul has departed, where this
    poor body lies, but we who are left behind would do all we can to
    show how we loved them.  This is denied me, but it is God’s hand that
    afflicts us, and I try to submit.  Some day I may be able to visit
    the spot, and see where he lies, and erect a simple stone to his
    memory.  Oh! it will be long, long before I forget that dreadful
    night!  Is there such a thing in the vicinity, or any shop in Bangor,
    to which I could send for a small picture of Moelfra or Llanallgo
    church, a spot now sacred to me?
Another widow writes:
    I have received your letter this morning, and do thank you most
    kindly for the interest you have taken about my dear husband, as well
    for the sentiments yours contains, evincing the spirit of a Christian
    who can sympathise with those who, like myself, are broken down with
    grief.
