And only he?  Or has the like appeal been ever made, by seventy years at
once upon an English labourer’s head, and made in vain!
The streets were full of motion, and the shops were decked out gaily.
The New Year, like an Infant Heir to the whole world, was waited for,
with welcomes, presents, and rejoicings.  There were books and toys for
the New Year, glittering trinkets for the New Year, dresses for the New
Year, schemes of fortune for the New Year; new inventions to beguile it.
Its life was parcelled out in almanacks and pocket-books; the coming of
its moons, and stars, and tides, was known beforehand to the moment; all
the workings of its seasons in their days and nights, were calculated
with as much precision as Mr. Filer could work sums in men and women.
The New Year, the New Year.  Everywhere the New Year!  The Old Year was
already looked upon as dead; and its effects were selling cheap, like
some drowned mariner’s aboardship.  Its patterns were Last Year’s, and
going at a sacrifice, before its breath was gone.  Its treasures were
mere dirt, beside the riches of its unborn successor!
Trotty had no portion, to his thinking, in the New Year or the Old.
‘Put ’em down, Put ’em down!  Facts and Figures, Facts and Figures!  Good
old Times, Good old Times!  Put ’em down, Put ’em down!’—his trot went to
that measure, and would fit itself to nothing else.
But, even that one, melancholy as it was, brought him, in due time, to
the end of his journey.  To the mansion of Sir Joseph Bowley, Member of
Parliament.
The door was opened by a Porter.  Such a Porter!  Not of Toby’s order.
Quite another thing.  His place was the ticket though; not Toby’s.
This Porter underwent some hard panting before he could speak; having
breathed himself by coming incautiously out of his chair, without first
taking time to think about it and compose his mind.  When he had found
his voice—which it took him a long time to do, for it was a long way off,
and hidden under a load of meat—he said in a fat whisper,
‘Who’s it from?’
Toby told him.
‘You’re to take it in, yourself,’ said the Porter, pointing to a room at
the end of a long passage, opening from the hall.  ‘Everything goes
straight in, on this day of the year.  You’re not a bit too soon; for the
carriage is at the door now, and they have only come to town for a couple
of hours, a’ purpose.’
Toby wiped his feet (which were quite dry already) with great care, and
took the way pointed out to him; observing as he went that it was an
awfully grand house, but hushed and covered up, as if the family were in
the country.  Knocking at the room-door, he was told to enter from
within; and doing so found himself in a spacious library, where, at a
table strewn with files and papers, were a stately lady in a bonnet; and
a not very stately gentleman in black who wrote from her dictation; while
another, and an older, and a much statelier gentleman, whose hat and cane
were on the table, walked up and down, with one hand in his breast, and
looked complacently from time to time at his own picture—a full length; a
very full length—hanging over the fireplace.
