'What is absurd, Rosa?'
'The whole thing is.  It _is_ so absurd to be an engaged orphan and it
_is_ so absurd to have the girls and the servants scuttling about after
one, like mice in the wainscot; and it _is_ so absurd to be called upon!'
The apparition appears to have a thumb in the corner of its mouth while
making this complaint.
'You give me an affectionate reception, Pussy, I must say.'
'Well, I will in a minute, Eddy, but I can't just yet.  How are you?'
(very shortly.)
'I am unable to reply that I am much the better for seeing you, Pussy,
inasmuch as I see nothing of you.'
This second remonstrance brings a dark, bright, pouting eye out from a
corner of the apron; but it swiftly becomes invisible again, as the
apparition exclaims: 'O good gracious! you have had half your hair cut
off!'
'I should have done better to have had my head cut off, I think,' says
Edwin, rumpling the hair in question, with a fierce glance at the
looking-glass, and giving an impatient stamp.  'Shall I go?'
'No; you needn't go just yet, Eddy.  The girls would all be asking
questions why you went.'
'Once for all, Rosa, will you uncover that ridiculous little head of
yours and give me a welcome?'
The apron is pulled off the childish head, as its wearer replies: 'You're
very welcome, Eddy.  There! I'm sure that's nice.  Shake hands.  No, I
can't kiss you, because I've got an acidulated drop in my mouth.'
'Are you at all glad to see me, Pussy?'
'O, yes, I'm dreadfully glad.--Go and sit down.--Miss Twinkleton.'
It is the custom of that excellent lady when these visits occur, to
appear every three minutes, either in her own person or in that of Mrs.
Tisher, and lay an offering on the shrine of Propriety by affecting to
look for some desiderated article.  On the present occasion Miss
Twinkleton, gracefully gliding in and out, says in passing: 'How do you
do, Mr. Drood?  Very glad indeed to have the pleasure.  Pray excuse me.
Tweezers.  Thank you!'
'I got the gloves last evening, Eddy, and I like them very much.  They
are beauties.'
'Well, that's something,' the affianced replies, half grumbling.  'The
smallest encouragement thankfully received.  And how did you pass your
birthday, Pussy?'
'Delightfully!  Everybody gave me a present.  And we had a feast.  And we
had a ball at night.'
'A feast and a ball, eh?  These occasions seem to go off tolerably well
without me, Pussy.'
'De-lightfully!' cries Rosa, in a quite spontaneous manner, and without
the least pretence of reserve.
'Hah!  And what was the feast?'
'Tarts, oranges, jellies, and shrimps.'
'Any partners at the ball?'
'We danced with one another, of course, sir.  But some of the girls made
game to be their brothers.  It _was_ so droll!'
'Did anybody make game to be--'
'To be you?  O dear yes!' cries Rosa, laughing with great enjoyment.
'That was the first thing done.'
