‘Why, she’s as light,’ said Trotty, trotting in his speech as well as in
his gait; for he couldn’t bear to be thanked, and dreaded a moment’s
pause; ‘as light as a feather.  Lighter than a Peacock’s feather—a great
deal lighter.  Here we are and here we go!  Round this first turning to
the right, Uncle Will, and past the pump, and sharp off up the passage to
the left, right opposite the public-house.  Here we are and here we go!
Cross over, Uncle Will, and mind the kidney pieman at the corner!  Here
we are and here we go!  Down the Mews here, Uncle Will, and stop at the
black door, with “T. Veck, Ticket Porter,” wrote upon a board; and here
we are and here we go, and here we are indeed, my precious.  Meg,
surprising you!’
With which words Trotty, in a breathless state, set the child down before
his daughter in the middle of the floor.  The little visitor looked once
at Meg; and doubting nothing in that face, but trusting everything she
saw there; ran into her arms.
‘Here we are and here we go!’ cried Trotty, running round the room, and
choking audibly.  ‘Here, Uncle Will, here’s a fire you know!  Why don’t
you come to the fire?  Oh here we are and here we go!  Meg, my precious
darling, where’s the kettle?  Here it is and here it goes, and it’ll bile
in no time!’
Trotty really had picked up the kettle somewhere or other in the course
of his wild career and now put it on the fire: while Meg, seating the
child in a warm corner, knelt down on the ground before her, and pulled
off her shoes, and dried her wet feet on a cloth.  Ay, and she laughed at
Trotty too—so pleasantly, so cheerfully, that Trotty could have blessed
her where she kneeled; for he had seen that, when they entered, she was
sitting by the fire in tears.
‘Why, father!’ said Meg.  ‘You’re crazy to-night, I think.  I don’t know
what the Bells would say to that.  Poor little feet.  How cold they are!’
‘Oh, they’re warmer now!’ exclaimed the child.  ‘They’re quite warm now!’
‘No, no, no,’ said Meg.  ‘We haven’t rubbed ’em half enough.  We’re so
busy.  So busy!  And when they’re done, we’ll brush out the damp hair;
and when that’s done, we’ll bring some colour to the poor pale face with
fresh water; and when that’s done, we’ll be so gay, and brisk, and
happy—!’
The child, in a burst of sobbing, clasped her round the neck; caressed
her fair cheek with its hand; and said, ‘Oh Meg! oh dear Meg!’
Toby’s blessing could have done no more.  Who could do more!
‘Why, father!’ cried Meg, after a pause.
‘Here I am and here I go, my dear!’ said Trotty.
‘Good Gracious me!’ cried Meg.  ‘He’s crazy!  He’s put the dear child’s
bonnet on the kettle, and hung the lid behind the door!’
‘I didn’t go for to do it, my love,’ said Trotty, hastily repairing this
mistake.  ‘Meg, my dear?’
