My sitting-room, bedroom, and dressing-room, are all on one floor.  With
the last there is no communication but through the bedroom.  True, there
is a door in it, once communicating with the staircase; but a part of the
fitting of my bath has been—and had then been for some years—fixed across
it.  At the same period, and as a part of the same arrangement,—the door
had been nailed up and canvased over.
I was standing in my bedroom late one night, giving some directions to my
servant before he went to bed.  My face was towards the only available
door of communication with the dressing-room, and it was closed.  My
servant’s back was towards that door.  While I was speaking to him, I saw
it open, and a man look in, who very earnestly and mysteriously beckoned
to me.  That man was the man who had gone second of the two along
Piccadilly, and whose face was of the colour of impure wax.
The figure, having beckoned, drew back, and closed the door.  With no
longer pause than was made by my crossing the bedroom, I opened the
dressing-room door, and looked in.  I had a lighted candle already in my
hand.  I felt no inward expectation of seeing the figure in the
dressing-room, and I did not see it there.
Conscious that my servant stood amazed, I turned round to him, and said:
“Derrick, could you believe that in my cool senses I fancied I saw a —”
As I there laid my hand upon his breast, with a sudden start he trembled
violently, and said, “O Lord, yes, sir!  A dead man beckoning!”
Now I do not believe that this John Derrick, my trusty and attached
servant for more than twenty years, had any impression whatever of having
seen any such figure, until I touched him.  The change in him was so
startling, when I touched him, that I fully believe he derived his
impression in some occult manner from me at that instant.
I bade John Derrick bring some brandy, and I gave him a dram, and was
glad to take one myself.  Of what had preceded that night’s phenomenon, I
told him not a single word.  Reflecting on it, I was absolutely certain
that I had never seen that face before, except on the one occasion in
Piccadilly.  Comparing its expression when beckoning at the door with its
expression when it had stared up at me as I stood at my window, I came to
the conclusion that on the first occasion it had sought to fasten itself
upon my memory, and that on the second occasion it had made sure of being
immediately remembered.
I was not very comfortable that night, though I felt a certainty,
difficult to explain, that the figure would not return.  At daylight I
fell into a heavy sleep, from which I was awakened by John Derrick’s
coming to my bedside with a paper in his hand.
This paper, it appeared, had been the subject of an altercation at the
door between its bearer and my servant.  It was a summons to me to serve
upon a Jury at the forthcoming Sessions of the Central Criminal Court at
the Old Bailey.  I had never before been summoned on such a Jury, as John
Derrick well knew.  He believed—I am not certain at this hour whether
with reason or otherwise—that that class of Jurors were customarily
chosen on a lower qualification than mine, and he had at first refused to
accept the summons.  The man who served it had taken the matter very
coolly.  He had said that my attendance or non-attendance was nothing to
him; there the summons was; and I should deal with it at my own peril,
and not at his.
