Why is he insane? I told you before: it is because his opinions are not
ours. I know of no other reason, and I do not need any other; it is the
only way we have of discovering insanity when it is not violent. It
is merely the picturesqueness of his insanity that makes it more
interesting than my kind or yours. For instance, consider his "little
book"; the "little book" exposed in the sky eighteen centuries ago by
the flaming angel of the Apocalypse, and handed down in our day to Mrs.
Mary Baker G. Eddy, of New Hampshire, and translated by her, word for
word, into English (with help of a polisher), and now published and
distributed in hundreds of editions by her at a clear profit per volume,
above cost, of seven hundred per cent.!--a profit which distinctly
belongs to the angel of the Apocalypse, and let him collect it if he
can; a "little book" which the C.S. very frequently calls by just that
name, and always enclosed in quotation-marks to keep its high origin
exultantly in mind; a "little book" which "explains" and reconstructs
and new-paints and decorates the Bible, and puts a mansard roof on it
and a lightning-rod and all the other modern improvements; a "little
book" which for the present affects to travel in yoke with the Bible and
be friendly to it, and within half a century will hitch the Bible in the
rear and thenceforth travel tandem, itself in the lead, in the coming
great march of Christian Scientism through the Protestant dominions of
the planet.
CHAPTER VI
"Hungry ones throng to hear the Bible read in connection with the
text-book of Christian Science, Science and Health, with Key to the
Scriptures, by Mary Baker G. Eddy. These are our only preachers. They
are the word of God." "Christian Science Journal", October, 1898.
Is that picturesque? A lady has told me that in a chapel of the Mosque
in Boston there is a picture or image of Mrs. Eddy, and that before it
burns a never-extinguished light. Is that picturesque? How long do you
think it will be before the Christian Scientist will be worshipping that
picture or image and praying to it? How long do you think it will
be before it is claimed that Mrs. Eddy is a Redeemer, a Christ, and
Christ's equal? Already her army of disciples speak of her reverently as
"Our Mother."
How long will it be before they place her on the steps of the Throne
beside the Virgin--and, later, a step higher? First, Mary the Virgin and
Mary the Matron; later, with a change of precedence, Mary the Matron
and Mary the Virgin. Let the artist get ready with his canvas and his
brushes; the new Renaissance is on its way, and there will be money in
altar-canvases--a thousand times as much as the Popes and their Church
ever spent on the Old Masters; for their riches were poverty as
compared with what is going to pour into the treasure-chest of the
Christian-Scientist Papacy by-and-by, let us not doubt it. We will
examine the financial outlook presently and see what it promises. A
favorite subject of the new Old Master will be the first verse of the
twelfth chapter of Revelation--a verse which Mrs. Eddy says (in her
Annex to the Scriptures) has "one distinctive feature which has special
reference to the present age"--and to her, as is rather pointedly
indicated:
