Ah--THERE was a point which he had been overlooking from the start: it
had to be a service which he had rendered "possibly without knowing
the full value of it." Why, really, that ought to be an easy hunt--much
easier than those others. And sure enough, by-and-by he found it.
Goodson, years and years ago, came near marrying a very sweet and pretty
girl, named Nancy Hewitt, but in some way or other the match had been
broken off; the girl died, Goodson remained a bachelor, and by-and-by
became a soured one and a frank despiser of the human species. Soon
after the girl's death the village found out, or thought it had found
out, that she carried a spoonful of negro blood in her veins. Richards
worked at these details a good while, and in the end he thought he
remembered things concerning them which must have gotten mislaid in his
memory through long neglect. He seemed to dimly remember that it was
HE that found out about the negro blood; that it was he that told the
village; that the village told Goodson where they got it; that he thus
saved Goodson from marrying the tainted girl; that he had done him this
great service "without knowing the full value of it," in fact without
knowing that he WAS doing it; but that Goodson knew the value of it, and
what a narrow escape he had had, and so went to his grave grateful to
his benefactor and wishing he had a fortune to leave him. It was all
clear and simple, now, and the more he went over it the more luminous
and certain it grew; and at last, when he nestled to sleep, satisfied
and happy, he remembered the whole thing just as if it had been
yesterday. In fact, he dimly remembered Goodson's TELLING him his
gratitude once. Meantime Mary had spent six thousand dollars on a new
house for herself and a pair of slippers for her pastor, and then had
fallen peacefully to rest.
That same Saturday evening the postman had delivered a letter to each
of the other principal citizens--nineteen letters in all. No two of the
envelopes were alike, and no two of the superscriptions were in the same
hand, but the letters inside were just like each other in every
detail but one. They were exact copies of the letter received by
Richards--handwriting and all--and were all signed by Stephenson, but in
place of Richards's name each receiver's own name appeared.
All night long eighteen principal citizens did what their caste-brother
Richards was doing at the same time--they put in their energies trying
to remember what notable service it was that they had unconsciously done
Barclay Goodson. In no case was it a holiday job; still they succeeded.
And while they were at this work, which was difficult, their wives put
in the night spending the money, which was easy. During that one night
the nineteen wives spent an average of seven thousand dollars each out
of the forty thousand in the sack--a hundred and thirty-three thousand
altogether.
