He stopped there, as if that settled the matter. I was sorry, for at
that time I had but a dim idea of what the Moral Sense was. I merely
knew that we were proud of having it, and when he talked like that
about it, it wounded me, and I felt as a girl feels who thinks her
dearest finery is being admired and then overhears strangers making fun
of it. For a while we were all silent, and I, for one, was depressed.
Then Satan began to chat again, and soon he was sparkling along in such
a cheerful and vivacious vein that my spirits rose once more. He told
some very cunning things that put us in a gale of laughter; and when he
was telling about the time that Samson tied the torches to the foxes’
tails and set them loose in the Philistines’ corn, and Samson sitting
on the fence slapping his thighs and laughing, with the tears running
down his cheeks, and lost his balance and fell off the fence, the
memory of that picture got him to laughing, too, and we did have a most
lovely and jolly time. By and by he said:
“I am going on my errand now.”
“Don’t!” we all said. “Don’t go; stay with us. You won’t come back.”
“Yes, I will; I give you my word.”
“When? To-night? Say when.”
“It won’t be long. You will see.”
“We like you.”
“And I you. And as a proof of it I will show you something fine to see.
Usually when I go I merely vanish; but now I will dissolve myself and
let you see me do it.”
He stood up, and it was quickly finished. He thinned away and thinned
away until he was a soap-bubble, except that he kept his shape. You
could see the bushes through him as clearly as you see things through
a soap-bubble, and all over him played and flashed the delicate
iridescent colors of the bubble, and along with them was that thing
shaped like a window-sash which you always see on the globe of
the bubble. You have seen a bubble strike the carpet and lightly
bound along two or three times before it bursts. He did that. He
sprang--touched the grass--bounded--floated along--touched again--and
so on, and presently exploded--puff! and in his place was vacancy.
It was a strange and beautiful thing to see. We did not say anything,
but sat wondering and dreaming and blinking; and finally Seppi roused
up and said, mournfully sighing:
“I suppose none of it has happened.”
Nikolaus sighed and said about the same.
I was miserable to hear them say it, for it was the same cold fear that
was in my own mind. Then we saw poor old Father Peter wandering along
back, with his head bent down, searching the ground. When he was pretty
close to us he looked up and saw us, and said, “How long have you been
here, boys?”
