During the first day we were in a state of anxiety on account of one
thing, and we kept going to Father Peter’s house on one pretext or
another to keep track of it. That was the gold coin; we were afraid it
would crumble and turn to dust, like fairy money. If it did--But it
didn’t. At the end of the day no complaint had been made about it, so
after that we were satisfied that it was real gold, and dropped the
anxiety out of our minds.
There was a question which we wanted to ask Father Peter, and finally
we went there the second evening, a little diffidently, after drawing
straws, and I asked it as casually as I could, though it did not sound
as casual as I wanted, because I didn’t know how:
“What is the Moral Sense, sir?”
He looked down, surprised, over his great spectacles, and said, “Why,
it is the faculty which enables us to distinguish good from evil.”
It threw some light, but not a glare, and I was a little disappointed,
also to some degree embarrassed. He was waiting for me to go on, so, in
default of anything else to say, I asked, “Is it valuable?”
“Valuable? Heavens! lad, it is the one thing that lifts man above the
beasts that perish and makes him heir to immortality!”
This did not remind me of anything further to say, so I got out, with
the other boys, and we went away with that indefinite sense you have
often had of being filled but not fatted. They wanted me to explain,
but I was tired.
We passed out through the parlor, and there was Marget at the spinnet
teaching Marie Lueger. So one of the deserting pupils was back; and an
influential one, too; the others would follow. Marget jumped up and
ran and thanked us again, with tears in her eyes--this was the third
time--for saving her and her uncle from being turned into the street,
and we told her again we hadn’t done it; but that was her way, she
never could be grateful enough for anything a person did for her; so
we let her have her say. And as we passed through the garden, there was
Wilhelm Meidling sitting there waiting, for it was getting toward the
edge of the evening, and he would be asking Marget to take a walk along
the river with him when she was done with the lesson. He was a young
lawyer, and succeeding fairly well and working his way along, little
by little. He was very fond of Marget, and she of him. He had not
deserted along with the others, but had stood his ground all through.
His faithfulness was not lost on Marget and her uncle. He hadn’t so
very much talent, but he was handsome and good, and these are a kind
of talents themselves and help along. He asked us how the lesson was
getting along, and we told him it was about done. And maybe it was so;
we didn’t know anything about it, but we judged it would please him,
and it did, and didn’t cost us anything.
