"Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, can't you see? Look at it. What's a-going to
happen? There's going to be an inquest in the morning. Them two men will
tell how they heard the yells and rushed there just in time to not save
the stranger. Then the jury'll twaddle and twaddle and twaddle, and
finally they'll fetch in a verdict that he got shot or stuck or busted
over the head with something, and come to his death by the inspiration
of God. And after they've buried him they'll auction off his things for
to pay the expenses, and then's OUR chance." "How, Tom?"
"Buy the boots for two dollars!"
Well, it 'most took my breath.
"My land! Why, Tom, WE'LL get the di'monds!"
"You bet. Some day there'll be a big reward offered for them--a thousand
dollars, sure. That's our money! Now we'll trot in and see the folks.
And mind you we don't know anything about any murder, or any di'monds,
or any thieves--don't you forget that."
I had to sigh a little over the way he had got it fixed. I'd 'a' SOLD
them di'monds--yes, sir--for twelve thousand dollars; but I didn't say
anything. It wouldn't done any good. I says:
"But what are we going to tell your aunt Sally has made us so long
getting down here from the village, Tom?"
"Oh, I'll leave that to you," he says. "I reckon you can explain it
somehow."
He was always just that strict and delicate. He never would tell a lie
himself.
We struck across the big yard, noticing this, that, and t'other thing
that was so familiar, and we so glad to see it again, and when we got to
the roofed big passageway betwixt the double log house and the kitchen
part, there was everything hanging on the wall just as it used to was,
even to Uncle Silas's old faded green baize working-gown with the hood
to it, and raggedy white patch between the shoulders that always looked
like somebody had hit him with a snowball; and then we lifted the latch
and walked in. Aunt Sally she was just a-ripping and a-tearing around,
and the children was huddled in one corner, and the old man he was
huddled in the other and praying for help in time of need. She jumped
for us with joy and tears running down her face and give us a whacking
box on the ear, and then hugged us and kissed us and boxed us again, and
just couldn't seem to get enough of it, she was so glad to see us; and
she says:
"Where HAVE you been a-loafing to, you good-for-nothing trash! I've been
that worried about you I didn't know what to do. Your traps has been
here ever so long, and I've had supper cooked fresh about four times so
as to have it hot and good when you come, till at last my patience is
just plumb wore out, and I declare I--I--why I could skin you alive! You
must be starving, poor things!--set down, set down, everybody; don't lose
no more time."
