Dr. Stockmann. I quite appreciate that.
Hovstad. Yes--and in my opinion a journalist incurs a heavy
responsibility if he neglects a favourable opportunity of emancipating
the masses--the humble and oppressed. I know well enough that in
exalted circles I shall be called an agitator, and all that sort of
thing; but they may call what they like. If only my conscience doesn't
reproach me, then--
Dr. Stockmann. Quite right! Quite right, Mr. Hovstad. But all the
same--devil take it! (A knock is heard at the door.) Come in!
(ASLAKSEN appears at the door. He is poorly but decently dressed, in
black, with a slightly crumpled white neckcloth; he wears gloves and
has a felt hat in his hand.)
Aslaksen (bowing). Excuse my taking the liberty, Doctor--
Dr. Stockmann (getting up). Ah, it is you, Aslaksen!
Aslaksen. Yes, Doctor.
Hovstad (standing up). Is it me you want, Aslaksen?
Aslaksen. No; I didn't know I should find you here. No, it was the
Doctor I--
Dr. Stockmann. I am quite at your service. What is it?
Aslaksen. Is what I heard from Mr. Billing true, sir--that you mean to
improve our water supply?
Dr. Stockmann. Yes, for the Baths.
Aslaksen. Quite so, I understand. Well, I have come to say that I will
back that up by every means in my power.
Hovstad (to the DOCTOR). You see!
Dr. Stockmann. I shall be very grateful to you, but--
Aslaksen. Because it may be no bad thing to have us small tradesmen at
your back. We form, as it were, a compact majority in the town--if we
choose. And it is always a good thing to have the majority with you,
Doctor.
Dr. Stockmann. That is undeniably true; but I confess I don't see why
such unusual precautions should be necessary in this case. It seems to
me that such a plain, straightforward thing.
Aslaksen. Oh, it may be very desirable, all the same. I know our local
authorities so well; officials are not generally very ready to act on
proposals that come from other people. That is why I think it would not
be at all amiss if we made a little demonstration.
Hovstad. That's right.
Dr. Stockmann. Demonstration, did you say? What on earth are you going
to make a demonstration about?
Aslaksen. We shall proceed with the greatest moderation, Doctor.
Moderation is always my aim; it is the greatest virtue in a citizen--at
least, I think so.
Dr. Stockmann. It is well known to be a characteristic of yours, Mr.
Aslaksen.
Aslaksen. Yes, I think I may pride myself on that. And this matter of
the water supply is of the greatest importance to us small tradesmen.
The Baths promise to be a regular gold-mine for the town. We shall all
make our living out of them, especially those of us who are
householders. That is why we will back up the project as strongly as
possible. And as I am at present Chairman of the Householders'
Association.
Dr. Stockmann. Yes--?
