CATILINE.  A man who burns in freedom's holy zeal;
An enemy of all unrighteous power;
Friend of the helpless trodden under heel,--
Eager to hurl the mighty from their tower.
AMBIORIX.  The noble race of Rome--?  Ah, Roman, speak--
Since we are strangers here you would deceive us?
Is Rome no more the guardian of the weak,
The dread of tyrants,--ready to relieve us?
CATILINE.  [Points towards the city and speaks.]
Behold the mighty Capitol that towers
On yonder heights in haughty majesty.
See, in the glow of evening how it lowers,
Tinged with the last rays of the western sky.--
So too Rome's evening glow is fast declining,
Her freedom now is thraldom, dark as night.--
Yet in her sky a sun will soon be shining,
Before which darkness quick will take its flight.
[He goes.]
                *       *       *       *       *
[A colonnade in Rome.]
[LENTULUS, STATILIUS, COEPARIUS, and CETHEGUS enter,
in eager conversation.]
COEPARIUS.  Yes, you are right; things go from bad to worse;
And what the end will be I do not know.
CETHEGUS.  Bah!  I am not concerned about the end.
The fleeting moment I enjoy; each cup
Of pleasure as it comes I empty,--letting
All else go on to ruin as it will.
LENTULUS.  Happy is he who can.  I am not blessed
With your indifference, that can outface
The day when nothing shall be left us more,
Nothing with which to pay the final score.
STATILIUS.  And not the faintest glimpse of better things!
Yet it is true: a mode of life like ours--
CETHEGUS.  Enough of that!
LENTULUS.  Today because of debt
The last of my inheritance was seized.
CETHEGUS.  Enough of sorrow and complaint!  Come, friends!
We'll drown them in a merry drinking bout!
COEPARIUS.  Yes, let us drink.  Come, come, my merry comrades!
LENTULUS.  A moment, friends; I see old Manlius yonder,--
Seeking us out, I think, as is his wont.
MANLIUS.  [Enters impetuously.]
Confound the shabby dogs, the paltry scoundrels!
Justice and fairness they no longer know!
LENTULUS.  Come, what has happened?  Wherefore so embittered?
STATILIUS.  Have usurers been plaguing you as well?
MANLIUS.  Something quite different.  As you all know,
I served with honor among Sulla's troops;
A bit of meadow land was my reward.
And when the war was at an end, I lived
Thereon; it furnished me my daily bread.
Now is it taken from me!  Laws decree--
State property shall to the state revert
For equal distribution.  Theft, I say,--
It is rank robbery and nothing else!
Their greed is all they seek to satisfy.
COEPARIUS.  Thus with our rights they sport to please themselves.
The mighty always dare do what they will.
CETHEGUS.  [Gaily.]  Hard luck for Manlius!  Yet, a worse mishap
Has come to me, as I shall now relate.
Listen,--you know my pretty mistress, Livia,--
The little wretch has broken faith with me,
Just now when I had squandered for her sake
The slender wealth that still remained to me.
STATILIUS.  Extravagance--the cause of your undoing.
