                *       *       *       *       *
SECOND ACT
[A room in CATILINE's house with a colonnade in the
rear; a lamp lights up the room.]
[CATILINE paces the floor back and forth; LENTULUS and
CETHEGUS are with him.]
CATILINE.  No, no!  I say, you do not understand
Yourselves what you demand of me.  Should I
Turn traitor and incite a civil war,--
Besmear my hand with Roman blood?  No, no!
I'll never do it!  Let the entire state
Condemn me if--
LENTULUS.  You will not, Catiline?
CATILINE.  No.
LENTULUS.  Tell me,--have you nothing to avenge?
No insult?  No one here you fain would strike?
CATILINE.  Let him who will avenge; I shall not stir.
Yet silent scorn is likewise a revenge;--
And that alone shall be enough.
CETHEGUS.  Aha,--
Our visit was, I see, inopportune.
Yet doubtless will the morrow bring you back
To other thoughts.
CATILINE.  But why the morrow?
CETHEGUS.  There are mysterious rumors in the air.
A vestal recently was led to death--
CATILINE.  [Surprised.]
A vestal,--say you?  Ah, what do you mean?
LENTULUS.  Why, yes, a vestal.  Many people murmur--
CATILINE.  What do they murmur?
CETHEGUS.  That in this dark affair
You are not altogether innocent.
CATILINE.  This they believe of me?
LENTULUS.  Such is the rumor;
Of course,--to us, to all your good old friends,
Such talk is trifling and of no account;--
The world, however, judges more severely.
CATILINE.  [Deep in thought.]  And is she dead?
CETHEGUS.  Undoubtedly she is.
An hour's confinement in the convict tomb
Is quite enough--
LENTULUS.  That is not our affair.
It was not therefore that we spoke of her.
But hear me, Catiline!  Bethink yourself.
You sought the consulate; and all your welfare
Hung on that single fragile thread of hope.
Now is it sundered; everything is lost.
CATILINE.  [Still deep in thought.]
"Vengeance you have invoked on your own head!"
CETHEGUS.  Shake off these useless thoughts; they profit naught;
Act like a man; still can this fight be won;
A bold resolve now--; you have friends enough;
Speak but the word, and we shall follow you.--
You are not tempted?  Answer!
CATILINE.  No, I say!
And why are you so eager to conspire?
Be honest!  Are you driven by thirst for freedom?
Is it in order to renew Rome's splendor
That you would ruin all?
LENTULUS.  Indeed, 'tis not;
Yet surely is the hope of personal greatness
Sufficient motive for our enterprise!
CETHEGUS.  And means enough to taste the joys of life
Are not, in truth, to be so lightly scorned.
That is my motive;--I am not ambitious.
CATILINE.  I knew it.  Only mean and paltry motives,
The hope of private vantage, urge you on.
No, no, my friends; I aimed at nobler things!
True, I have sought with bribes and promises
To seize ere now the consulate, and yet
My plan was greater and comprised much more
Than means like these would point to.  Civic freedom,
The welfare of the state,--these were my aims.
Men have misjudged, appearances belied me;
My fate has willed it so.  It must so be!
