Mrs. Alving. He doesn't see very much of her.
Manders. But he assured me that he saw her every day.
Mrs. Alving. Oh well, perhaps he does.
Manders. He feels so strongly that he needs someone who can keep a hold
on him when temptations assail him. That is the most winning thing
about Jacob Engstrand; he comes to one like a helpless child and
accuses himself and confesses his frailty. The last time he came and
had a talk with me... Suppose now, Mrs. Alving, that it were really a
necessity of his existence to have Regina at home with him again--
Mrs. Alving (standing up suddenly). Regina!
Manders. --you ought not to set yourself against him.
Mrs. Alving. Indeed, I set myself very definitely against that. And,
besides, you know Regina is to have a post in the Orphanage.
Manders. But consider, after all he is her father--
Mrs. Alving. I know best what sort of a father he has been to her. No,
she shall never go to him with my consent.
Manders (getting up). My dear lady, don't judge so hastily. It is very
sad how you misjudge poor Engstrand. One would really think you were
afraid...
Mrs. Alving (more calmly). That is not the question. I have taken
Regina into my charge, and in my charge she remains. (Listens.) Hush,
dear Mr. Manders, don't say any more about it. (Her face brightens with
pleasure.) Listen! Oswald is coming downstairs. We will only think
about him now.
(OSWALD ALVING, in a light overcoat, hat in hand and smoking a big
meerschaum pipe, comes in by the door on the left.)
Oswald (standing in the doorway). Oh, I beg your pardon, I thought you
were in the office. (Comes in.) Good morning, Mr. Manders.
Manders (staring at him). Well! It's most extraordinary.
Mrs. Alving. Yes, what do you think of him, Mr. Manders?
Manders. I-I-no, can it possibly be--?
Oswald. Yes, it really is the prodigal son, Mr. Manders.
Manders. Oh, my dear young friend--
Oswald. Well, the son came home, then.
Mrs. Alving. Oswald is thinking of the time when you were so opposed to
the idea of his being a painter.
Manders. We are only fallible, and many steps seem to us hazardous at
first, that afterwards--(grasps his hand). Welcome, welcome! Really, my
dear Oswald--may I still call you Oswald?
Oswald. What else would you think of calling me?
Manders. Thank you. What I mean, my dear Oswald, is that you must not
imagine that I have any unqualified disapproval of the artist's life. I
admit that there are many who, even in that career, can keep the inner
man free from harm.
Oswald. Let us hope so.
Mrs. Alving (beaming with pleasure). I know one who has kept both the
inner and the outer man free from harm. Just take a look at him, Mr.
Manders.
Oswald (walks across the room). Yes, yes, mother dear, of course.
Manders. Undoubtedly--no one can deny it. And I hear you have begun to
make a name for yourself. I have often seen mention of you in the
papers--and extremely favourable mention, too. Although, I must admit,
lately I have not seen your name so often.
