Regina. Did he? He is always so glad when he can have a chat with you.
Manders. And I suppose you have seen him pretty regularly every day?
Regina. I? Oh, yes, I do--whenever I have time, that is to say.
Manders. Your father has not a very strong character, Miss Engstrand.
He sadly needs a guiding hand.
Regina. Yes, I can quite believe that.
Manders. He needs someone with him that he can cling to, someone whose
judgment he can rely on. He acknowledged that freely himself, the last
time he came up to see me.
Regina. Yes, he has said something of the same sort to me. But I don't
know whether Mrs. Alving could do without me--most of all just now,
when we have the new Orphanage to see about. And I should be dreadfully
unwilling to leave Mrs. Alving, too; she has always been so good to me.
Manders. But a daughter's duty, my good child--. Naturally we should
have to get your mistress' consent first.
Regina. Still I don't know whether it would be quite the thing, at my
age, to keep house for a single man.
Manders. What! My dear Miss Engstrand, it is your own father we are
speaking of!
Regina. Yes, I dare say, but still--. Now, if it were in a good house
and with a real gentleman--
Manders. But, my dear Regina!
Regina. --one whom I could feel an affection for, and really feel in
the position of a daughter to...
Manders. Come, come--my dear good child--
Regina. I should like very much to live in town.  Out here it is
terribly lonely; and you know yourself, Mr. Manders, what it is to be
alone in the world. And, though I say it, I really am both capable and
willing. Don't you know any place that would be suitable for me, Mr.
Manders?
Manders. I? No, indeed I don't.
Regina. But, dear Mr. Manders--at any rate don't forget me, in case--
Manders (getting up). No, I won't forget you, Miss Engstrand.
Regina. Because, if I--
Manders. Perhaps you will be so kind as to let Mrs. Alving know I am
here?
Regina. I will fetch her at once, Mr. Manders. (Goes out to the left.
MANDERS walks up and down the room once or twice, stands for a moment
at the farther end of the room with his hands behind his back and looks
out into the garden. Then he comes back to the table, takes up a book
and looks at the title page, gives a start, and looks at some of the
others.)
Manders. Hm!--Really!
(MRS. ALVING comes in by the door on the left. She is followed by
REGINA, who goes out again at once through the nearer door on the
right.)
Mrs. Alving (holding out her hand). I am very glad to see you, Mr.
Manders.
Manders. How do you do, Mrs. Alving. Here I am, as I promised.
Mrs. Alving. Always punctual!
Manders. Indeed, I was hard put to it to get away. What with vestry
meetings and committees.
