REGINA. Oh, yes; I daresay he does.
MANDERS. He requires some one near him whom he cares for, and whose
judgment he respects. He frankly admitted as much when he last came to
see me.
REGINA. Yes, he mentioned something of the sort to me. But I don't know
whether Mrs. Alving can spare me; especially now that we've got the
new Orphanage to attend to. And then I should be so sorry to leave Mrs.
Alving; she has always been so kind to me.
MANDERS. But a daughter's duty, my good girl--Of course, we should first
have to get your mistress's consent.
REGINA. But I don't know whether it would be quite proper for me, at my
age, to keep house for a single man.
MANDERS. What! My dear Miss Engstrand! When the man is your own father!
REGINA. Yes, that may be; but all the same--Now, if it were in a
thoroughly nice house, and with a real gentleman--
MANDERS. Why, my dear Regina--
REGINA.--one I could love and respect, and be a daughter to--
MANDERS. Yes, but my dear, good child--
REGINA. Then I should be glad to go to town. It's very lonely out here;
you know yourself, sir, what it is to be alone in the world. And I can
assure you I'm both quick and willing. Don't you know of any such place
for me, sir?
MANDERS. I? No, certainly not.
REGINA. But, dear, dear Sir, do remember me if--
MANDERS. [Rising.] Yes, yes, certainly, Miss Engstrand.
REGINA. For if I--
MANDERS. Will you be so good as to tell your mistress I am here?
REGINA. I will, at once, sir. [She goes out to the left.]
MANDERS. [Paces the room two or three times, stands a moment in the
background with his hands behind his back, and looks out over the
garden. Then he returns to the table, takes up a book, and looks at the
title-page; starts, and looks at several books.] Ha--indeed!
[MRS. ALVING enters by the door on the left; she is followed by REGINA,
who immediately goes out by the first door on the right.]
MRS. ALVING. [Holds out her hand.] Welcome, my dear Pastor.
MANDERS. How do you do, Mrs. Alving? Here I am as I promised.
MRS. ALVING. Always punctual to the minute.
MANDERS. You may believe it was not so easy for me to get away. With all
the Boards and Committees I belong to--
MRS. ALVING. That makes it all the kinder of you to come so early.
Now we can get through our business before dinner. But where is your
portmanteau?
MANDERS. [Quickly.] I left it down at the inn. I shall sleep there
to-night.
MRS. ALVING. [Suppressing a smile.] Are you really not to be persuaded,
even now, to pass the night under my roof?
MANDERS. No, no, Mrs. Alving; many thanks. I shall stay at the inn, as
usual. It is so conveniently near the landing-stage.
MRS. ALVING. Well, you must have your own way. But I really should have
thought we two old people--
