Mrs. Alving. Yes, yes; just as you think best.
Manders. And here is the certificate for the investment of the capital
in the bank, the interest being earmarked for the current expenses of
the Orphanage.
Mrs. Alving. Many thanks; but I think it will be most convenient if you
will kindly take charge of them.
Manders. With pleasure. I think it will be best to leave the money in
the bank for the present. The interest is not very high, it is true;
four per cent at six months' call; later on, if we can find some good
mortgage--of course it must be a first mortgage and on unexceptionable
security--we can consider the matter further.
Mrs. Alving. Yes, yes, my dear Mr. Manders, you know best about all
that.
Manders. I will keep my eye on it, anyway. But there is one thing in
connection with it that I have often meant to ask you about.
Mrs. Alving. What is that?
Manders. Shall we insure the buildings, or not?
Mrs. Alving. Of course we must insure them.
Manders. Ah, but wait a moment, dear lady. Let us look into the matter
a little more closely.
Mrs. Alving. Everything of mine is insured--the house and its contents,
my livestock--everything.
Manders. Naturally. They are your own property. I do exactly the same,
of course. But this, you see, is quite a different case. The Orphanage
is, so to speak, dedicated to higher uses.
Mrs. Alving. Certainly, but--
Manders. As far as I am personally concerned, I can conscientiously say
that I don't see the smallest objection to our insuring ourselves
against all risks.
Mrs. Alving. That is exactly what I think.
Manders. But what about the opinion of the people hereabouts?
Mrs. Alving. Their opinion--?
Manders. Is there any considerable body of opinion here--opinion of
some account, I mean--that might take exception to it?
Mrs. Alving. What, exactly, do you mean by opinion of some account?
Manders. Well, I was thinking particularly of persons of such
independent and influential position that one could hardly refuse to
attach weight to their opinion.
Mrs. Alving. There are a certain number of such people here, who might
perhaps take exception to it if we--
Manders. That's just it, you see. In town there are lots of them. All
my fellow-clergymen's congregations, for instance! It would be so
extremely easy for them to interpret it as meaning that neither you nor
I had a proper reliance on Divine protection.
Mrs. Alving. But as far as you are concerned, my dear friend, you have
at all events the consciousness that--
Manders. Yes I know I know; my own mind is quite easy about it, it is
true. But we should not be able to prevent a wrong and injurious
interpretation of our action. And that sort of thing, moreover, might
very easily end in exercising a hampering influence on the work of the
Orphanage.
Mrs. Alving. Oh, well, if that is likely to be the effect of it--
