  NILS LYKKE (aside).  Your repentance comes somewhat late, my
brother.
  JENS BIELKE.  Look you, I have never loved digging at a badger's
earth.  I look for quite other sport.  Here have I ridden all the
way from the Jaemteland with my horsemen, and have got me a warrant
from the Trondhiem commandant to search for the rebel wheresoever I
please.  All his tracks point towards Ostrat----
  NILS LYKKE.  He _is_ here!  He _is_ here, I tell you!
  JENS BIELKE.  If that were so, should we not have found the gate
barred and well guarded?  Would that we had; then could I have
found use for my men-at-arms----
  NILS LYKKE.  But instead, the gate is opened for us in hospitality.
Mark now--if Inger Gyldenlove's fame belie her not, I warrant she
will not let her guests lack for either meat or drink.
  JENS BIELKE.  Ay, to turn us aside from our errand!  And what
wild whim was that of yours to persuade me to leave my horsemen
a good mile from the castle?  Had we come in force----
  NILS LYKKE.  She had made us none the less welcome for that.  But
mark well that then our coming had made a stir.  The peasants round
about had held it for an outrage against Lady Inger; she had risen
high in their favour once more--and with that, look you, we were ill
served.
  JENS BIELKE.  May be so.  But what am I to do now?  Count Sture
is in Ostrat, you say.  Ay, but how does that profit me?  Be sure
Lady Inger Gyldenlove has as many hiding-places as the fox, and
more than one outlet to them.  We two can go snuffing about here
alone as long as we please.  I would the devil had the whole affair!
  NILS LYKKE.  Well, then, my friend--if you like not the turn your
errand has taken, you have but to leave the field to me.
  JENS BIELKE.  To you?  What will you do?
  NILS LYKKE.  Caution and cunning may here do more than could be
achieved by force of arms.--And to say truth, Captain Jens Bielke--
something of the sort has been in my mind ever since we met in
Trondhiem yesterday.
  JENS BIELKE.  Was that why you persuaded me to leave the men
at arms?
  NILS LYKKE.  Both your purpose at Ostrat and mine could best be
served without them; and so----
  JENS BIELKE.  The foul fiend seize you--I had almost said!  And
me to boot!  Might I not have known that there is guile in all
your dealings?
  NILS LYKKE.  Be sure I shall need all my guile here, if I am to
face my foe with even weapons.  And let me tell you 'tis of the
utmost moment to me that I acquit me of my mission secretly and
well.  You must know that when I set forth I was scarce in favour
with my lord the King.  He held me in suspicion; though I dare
swear I have served him as well as any man could, in more than
one ticklish charge.
