  EINAR HUK.  Then we have your leave to----?
  LADY INGER.  You have your own firm will; take counsel with that.
If it be as you say, that you are daily harassed and oppressed----
----  I know but little of these matters, and would not know more.
What can I, a lonely woman----?  Even if you were to plunder the
Banquet Hall--and there's many a good weapon on the walls--you are
the masters at Ostrat to-night.  You must do as seems good to you.
Good-night!
    (Loud cries of joy from the multitude.  Candles are lighted;
      the retainers bring weapons of different kinds from the hall.)
  BIORN (seizes LADY INGER'S hand as she is going).  Thanks, my
noble and high-souled mistress!  I, that have known you from
childhood up--I have never doubted you.
  LADY INGER.  Hush, Biorn.  It is a dangerous game that I have
ventured this night.  The others stake only their lives; but I,
trust me, a thousandfold more!
  BIORN.  How mean you?  Do you fear for your power and your favour
with----?
  LADY INGER.  My power?  O God in Heaven!
  A RETAINER (comes from the hall with a large sword).  See, here's
a real good wolf's-tooth to flay the blood-suckers' lackeys with!
  EINAR HUK.  'Tis too good for such as you.  Look, here is the
shaft of Sten Sture's* lance; hang the breastplate upon it, and
we shall have the noblest standard heart can desire.
    * Pronounce _Stayn Stoore_ [umlaut above "e"--D. L.].
  FINN (comes from the door on the left, with a letter in his hand,
and goes towards LADY INGER).  I have sought you through all the
house.
  LADY INGER.  What do you want?
  FINN (hands her the letter).  A messenger is come from Trondhiem
with a letter for you.
  LADY INGER.  Let me see!  (opening the letter).  From Trondhiem?
What can it be?  (Runs through the letter.)  Help, Christ!  From
him! and here in Norway----
    (Reads on with strong emotion, while the men go on bringing out
      arms from the hall.)
  LADY INGER (to herself).  He is coming here.  He is coming to-
night!--Ay, then 'tis with our wits we must fight, not with the
sword.
  EINAR HUK.  Enough, enough, good fellows; we are well armed now,
and can set forth on our way.
  LADY INGER (with a sudden change of tone).  No man shall leave
my house to-night!
  EINAR HUK.  But the wind is fair, noble lady; we can sail up the
fiord, and----
  LADY INGER.  It shall be as I have said.
  EINAR HUK.  Are we to wait till to-morrow, then?
  LADY INGER.  Till to-morrow, and longer still.  No armed man
shall go forth from Ostrat yet awhile.
    (Signs of displeasure from the crowd.)
  SOME OF THE PEASANTS.  We will go all the same, Lady Inger!
  THE CRY SPREADS.  Yes, yes; we _will_ go!
  LADY INGER (advancing a step towards them).  Who dares to move?
    (A silence.  After a moment's pause, she adds:)
  I have thought for you.  What do you common folk know of the
country's needs?  How dare you judge of such things?  You must
even bear your oppressions and burdens yet awhile.  Why murmur
at that, when you see that we, your leaders, are as ill bested
as you?---- ----  Take all the weapons back to the hall.  You
shall know my further will hereafter.  Go!
