  EINAR HUK.  We sought you, noble lady, to----
  LADY INGER.  Well, speak out!
  EINAR HUK.  Why, we are not ashamed of our errand.  In one word,
we come to pray you for weapons and leave----
  LADY INGER.  Weapons and leave----?  And for what?
  EINAR HUK.  There has come a rumour from Sweden that the people
of the Dales have risen against King Gustav----
  LADY INGER.  The people of the Dales?
  EINAR HUK.  Ay, so the tidings run, and they seem sure enough.
  LADY INGER.  Well, if it were so, what have you to do with the
Dale-folk's rising?
  THE PEASANTS.  We will join them!  We will help!  We will free
ourselves!
  LADY INGER (aside).  Can the time be come?
  EINAR HUK.  From all our borderlands the peasants are pouring
across to the Dales.  Even outlaws that have wandered for years
in the mountains are venturing down to the homesteads again, and
drawing men together, and whetting their rusty swords.
  LADY INGER (after a pause).  Tell me, men, have you thought
well of this?  Have you counted the cost, if King Gustav's men
should win?
  BIORN (softly and imploringly to LADY INGER).  Count the cost
to the Danes if King Gustav's men should lose.
  LADY INGER (evasively).  That reckoning is not for me to make.
(Turns to the people).
  You know that King Gustav is sure of help from Denmark.  King
Frederick is his friend, and will never leave him in the lurch----
  EINAR HUK.  But if the people were now to rise all over Norway's
land?--if we all rose as one man, nobles and peasants together?--
ay, Lady Inger Gyldenlove, the time we have waited for is surely
come.  We have but to rise now to drive the strangers from the land.
  THE PEASANTS.  Ay, out with the Danish sheriffs!  Out with the
foreign masters!  Out with the Councillors' lackeys!
  LADY INGER (aside).  Ah, there is metal in them; and yet, yet----!
  BIORN (to himself).  She is of two minds.  (To ELINA.)  What
say you now, Mistress Elina--have you not sinned in misjudging
your mother?
  ELINA.  Biorn, if my eyes have deceived me, I could tear them out
of my head!
  EINAR HUK.  See you not, my noble lady, King Gustav must be dealt
with first.  Once his power is gone, the Danes cannot long hold
this land----
  LADY INGER.  And then?
  EINAR HUK.  Then we shall be free.  We shall have no more foreign
masters, and can choose ourselves a king, as the Swedes have done
before us.
  LADY INGER (with animation).  A king for ourselves.  Are you
thinking of the Sture stock?
  EINAR HUK.  King Christiern and others after him have swept bare
our ancient houses.  The best of our nobles are outlaws on the hill-
paths, if so be they still live; nevertheless, it might still be
possible to find one or other shoot of the old stems----
  LADY INGER (hastily).  Enough, Einar Huk, enough!  (To herself.)
Ah, my dearest hope!  (Turns to the Peasants and Retainers.)
  I have warned you, now, as well as I can.  I have told you how
great is the risk you run.  But if you are fixed in your purpose,
it were folly of me to forbid what I have no power to prevent.
