FALK.
And you felt bigger, as you wrote, and braver,
To find you'd brought your venture safe to land!
STIVER.
Of course.
FALK.
       And you bade the Muse farewell?
STIVER.
I've felt no lyric impulse, truth to tell,
From that day forth.  My vein appeared to peter
Entirely out; and now, if I essay
To turn a verse or two for New Year's Day,
I make the veriest hash of rhyme and metre,
And--I've no notion what the cause can be--
It turns to law and not to poetry.
GULDSTAD [clinks glasses with him].
And trust me, you're no whit the worse for that!
                                       [To Falk.
You think the stream of life is flowing solely
To bear you to the goal you're aiming at--
But here I lodge a protest energetic,
Say what you will, against its wretched moral.
A masterly economy and new
To let the birds play havoc at their pleasure
Among your fruit-trees, fruitless now for you,
And suffer flocks and herds to trample through
Your garden, and lay waste its springtide treasure!
A pretty prospect, truly, for next year!
FALK.
Oh, next, next, next!  The thought I loathe and fear
That these four letters timidly express--
It beggars millionaires in happiness!
If I could be the autocrat of speech
But for one hour, that hateful word I'd banish;
I'd send it packing out of mortal reach,
As B and G from Knudsen's Grammar vanish.
STIVER.
Why should the word of hope enrage you thus?
FALK.
Because it darkens God's fair earth for us.
"Next year," "next love," "next life,"--my soul is vext
To see this world in thraldom to "the next."
'Tis this dull forethought, bent on future prizes,
That millionaires in gladness pauperises.
Far as the eye can reach, it blurs the age;
All rapture of the moment it destroys;
No one dares taste in peace life's simplest joys
Until he's struggled on another stage--
And there arriving, can he there repose?
No--to a new "next" off he flies again;
On, on, unresting to the grave he goes;
And God knows if there's any resting then.
MISS JAY.
Fie, Mr. Falk, such sentiments are shocking.
ANNA [pensively].
Oh, I can understand the feeling quite;
I am sure at bottom Mr. Falk is right.
MISS JAY [perturbed].
My Stiver mustn't listen to his mocking.
He's rather too eccentric even now.--
My dear, I want you.
STIVER [occupied in cleaning his pipe].
                      Presently, my dear.
GULDSTAD [to FALK].
One thing at least to me is very clear;--
And this is that you cannot but allow
Some forethought indispensable.  For see,
Suppose that you to-day should write a sonnet,
And, scorning forethought, you should lavish on it
Your last reserve, your all, of poetry,
So that, to-morrow, when you set about
Your next song, you should find yourself cleaned out,
Heavens! how your friends the critics then would crow!
FALK.
D'you think they'd notice I was bankrupt?  No!
Once beggared of ideas, I and they
Would saunter arm in arm the selfsame way--
                                  [Breaking off.
But Lind! why, what's the matter with you, pray?
You sit there dumb and dreaming--I suspect you're
Deep in the mysteries of architecture.
