Kroll. Good heavens--and that is the Ulrik Brendel of whom people once
thought that he would do great things!
Rosmer. At all events he has had the courage to live his life in his
own way. I do not think that is such a small thing, after all.
Kroll. What? A life like his? I almost believe he would have the power,
even now, to disturb all your ideas.
Rosmer. No, indeed. I have come to a clear understanding with myself
now, upon all points.
Kroll. I wish I could believe it, my dear Rosmer. You are so dreadfully
susceptible to impressions from without.
Rosmer. Let us sit down. I want to have a talk with you.
Kroll. By all means. (They sit down on the couch.)
Rosmer (after a short pause). Don't you think everything here looks
very pleasant and comfortable?
Kroll. Yes, it looks very pleasant and comfortable now--and peaceful.
You have made yourself a real home, Rosmer. And I have lost mine.
Rosmer. My dear fellow, do not say that. There may seem to be a rift
just now, but it will heal again.
Kroll. Never, never. The sting will always remain. Things can never be
as they were before.
Rosmer. I want to ask you something, Kroll. You and I have been the
closest of friends now for so many years--does it seem to you
conceivable that anything could destroy our friendship?
Kroll. I cannot imagine anything that could cause a breach between us.
What has put that into your head?
Rosmer. Well--your attaching such tremendous importance to similarity
of opinions and views.
Kroll. Certainly I do; but then we two hold pretty similar opinions at
all events on the most essential points.
Rosmer (gently). No. Not any longer.
Kroll (trying to jump up from his seat). What is this?
Rosmer (restraining him). No, you must sit still. Please, Kroll.
Kroll. What does it all mean? I do not understand you. Tell me,
straight out!
Rosmer. A new summer has blossomed in my heart--my eyes have regained
the clearness of youth. And, accordingly, I am now standing where--
Kroll. Where? Where are you standing?
Rosmer. Where your children are standing.
Kroll. You? You! The thing is impossible! Where do you say you are
standing?
Rosmer. On the same side as Laurits and Hilda.
Kroll (letting his head drop). An apostate. John Rosmer an apostate.
Rosmer. What you are calling apostasy ought to have made me feel
sincerely happy and fortunate; but for all that I have suffered keenly,
because I knew quite well it would cause you bitter sorrow.
Kroll. Rosmer, Rosmer, I shall never get over this. (Looks at him
sadly.) To think that you, too, could bring yourself to sympathise with
and join in the work of disorder and ruin that is playing havoc with
our unhappy country.
Rosmer. It is the work of emancipation that I sympathise with.
Kroll. Oh yes, I know all about that. That is what it is called, by
both those who are leading the people astray and by their misguided
victims. But, be sure of this--you need expect no emancipation to be
the result of the spirit that relies on the poisoning of the whole of
our social life.
