Kroll (turning round in the hall). You shall not set your foot in my
house. (Takes his stick and goes.)
(ROSMER stands for a while at the open door; then shuts it and comes
back into the room.)
Rosmer. That does not matter, Rebecca. We shall be able to go through
with it, for all that--we two trusty friends--you and I.
Rebecca. What do you suppose he meant just now when he said he was
ashamed of himself?
Rosmer. My dear girl, don't bother your head about that. He didn't even
believe what he meant, himself. But I will go and see him tomorrow.
Goodnight!
Rebecca. Are you going up so early to-night--after this?
Rosmer. As early to-night as I usually do. I feel such a sense of
relief now that it is over. You see, my dear Rebecca, I am perfectly
calm--so you take it calmly, too. Good-night.
Rebecca. Good-night, dear friend--and sleep well! (ROSMER goes out by
the door to the lobby; then his footsteps are heard as he goes
upstairs. REBECCA goes to the wall and rings a bell, which is answered
by MRS. HELSETH.) You can clear the table again, Mrs. Helseth. Mr.
Rosmer does not want anything, and Mr. Kroll has gone home.
Mrs. Helseth. Gone home? What was wrong with him, miss?
Rebecca (taking up her crochet-work). He prophesied that there was a
heavy storm brewing--
Mrs. Helseth. That is very strange, miss, because there isn't a scrap
of cloud in the sky.
Rebecca. Let us hope he doesn't meet the White Horse. Because I am
afraid it will not be long before we hear something of the family ghost.
Mrs. Helseth. God forgive you, miss--don't talk of such a dreadful
thing!
Rebecca. Oh, come, come!
Mrs. Helseth (lowering her voice). Do you really think, miss, that some
one here is to go soon?
Rebecca. Not a bit of it. But there are so many sorts of white horses
in this world, Mrs. Helseth--Well, good-night. I shall go to my room
now.
Mrs. Helseth. Good-night, miss. (Rebecca takes her work and goes out to
the right. MRS. HELSETH shakes her head, as she turns down the lamp,
and mutters to herself): Lord--Lord!--how queer Miss West does talk
sometimes!
ACT II
(SCENE. ROSMER'S study. The door into it is in the left-hand wall. At
the back of the room is a doorway with a curtain drawn back from it,
leading to his bedroom. On the right, a window, in front of which is a
writing-table strewn with books and papers. Bookshelves and cupboards
on the walls. Homely furniture. On the left, an old-fashioned sofa with
a table in front of it. ROSMER, wearing a smoking-jacket, is sitting at
the writing-table on a high-backed chair. He is cutting and turning
over the leaves of a magazine, and dipping into it here and there. A
knock is heard at the door on the left.)
Rosmer (without turning round). Come in.
(REBECCA comes in, wearing a morning wrapper.)
