Arnholm. But you're as fond as ever of reading.
Bolette. Yes, I read all the useful books I can get hold of. One wants
to know something about the world. For here we live so completely
outside of all that's going on--or almost.
Arnholm. Now don't say that, dear Bolette.
Bolette. Yes! I think we live very much as the carp down there in the
pond. They have the fjord so near them, where the shoals of wild fishes
pass in and out. But the poor, tame house-fishes know nothing, and they
can take no part in that.
Arnholm. I don't think it would fare very well with them if they could
get out there.
Bolette. Oh! it would be much the same, I expect.
Arnholm. Moreover, you can't say that one is so completely out of the
world here--not in the summer anyhow. Why, nowadays this is quite a
rendezvous for the busy world--almost a terminus for the time being.
Bolette. Ah, yes! you who yourself are only here for the time being--it
is easy for you to make fun of us.
Arnholm. I make fun? How can you think that?
Bolette. Well, all that about this being a rendezvous, and a terminus
for the busy world--that's something you've heard the townsfolk here
saying. Yes--they're in the habit of saying that sort of thing.
Arnholm. Well, frankly, I've noticed that, too.
Bolette. But really there's not an atom of truth in it. Not for us who
always live here. What good is it to us that the great strange world
comes hither for a time on its way North to see the midnight sun? We
ourselves have no part in that; we see nothing of the midnight sun. No!
We've got to be good, and live our lives here in our carp pond.
Arnholm (sitting down by her). Now tell me, dear Bolette, isn't there
something or other--something definite you are longing for?
Bolette. Perhaps.
Arnholm. What is it, really? What is it you are longing for?
Bolette. Chiefly to get away.
Arnholm. That above all, then?
Bolette. Yes; and then to learn more. To really know something about
everything.
Arnholm. When I used to teach you, your father often said he would let
you go to college.
Bolette. Yes, poor father! He says so many things. But when it comes to
the point he--there's no real stamina in father.
Arnholm. No, unfortunately you're right there. He has not exactly
stamina. But have you ever spoken to him about it--spoken really
earnestly and seriously?
Bolette. No, I've not quite done that.
Arnholm. But really you ought to. Before it is too late, Bolette, why
don't you?
Bolette. Oh! I suppose it's because there's no real stamina in me
either. I certainly take after father in that.
Arnholm. Hm--don't you think you're unjust to yourself there?
Bolette. No, unfortunately. Besides, father has so little time for
thinking of me and my future, and not much desire to either. He prefers
to put such things away from him whenever he can. He is so completely
taken up with Ellida.
