  THE CROWD. Sigurd! Sigurd did the deed!
  HIORDIS (quivering with agitation). He! he!--Gunnar, is this true?
  GUNNAR (with lofty calm). It is all true save only that I am a
weakling; I am neither a weakling nor a coward.
  SIGURD (moved). That art thou not, Gunnar! That hast thou never
been! (To the rest.) Away, my men! Away from here!
  DAGNY (at the door, to HIORDIS). Who is now the mightiest man at
the board--my husband or thine?
  HIORDIS (to herself). Now have I but one thing left to do--but one
deed to brood upon: Sigurd or I must die!
ACT THIRD.
(The hall in GUNNAR'S house. It is day.)
(HIORDIS sits on the bench in front of the smaller high-seat busy
  weaving a bow-string; on the table lie a bow and some arrows.)
  HIORDIS (pulling at the bow-string). It is tough and strong; (with
a glance at the arrows) the shaft is both keen and well-weighted--
(lets her hands fall in her lap) but where is the hand that----!
(Vehemently.) Befooled, befooled by him--by Sigurd! I must hate him
more than others, that can I well mark; but ere many days have passed
I will---- (Meditating.) Ay, but the arm, the arm that shall do the
deed----?
    (GUNNAR enters, silent and thoughtful, from the back.)
  HIORDIS (after a short pause). How goes it with thee, my husband?
  GUNNAR. Ill, Hiordis; I cannot away with that deed of yesterday; it
lies heavy on my heart.
  HIORDIS. Do as I do; get thee some work to busy thee.
  GUNNAR. Doubtless I must.
    (A pause; GUNNAR paces up and down the hall, notices what HIORDIS
      is doing, and approaches her.)
  GUNNAR. What dost thou there?
  HIORDIS (without looking up). I am weaving a bow-string; canst
thou not see?
  GUNNAR. A bow-string--of thine own hair?
  HIORDIS (smiling). Great deeds are born with every hour in these
times; yesterday thou didst slay my foster-brother, and I have woven
this since day-break.
  GUNNAR. Hiordis, Hiordis!
  HIORDIS (looking up). What is amiss?
  GUNNAR. Where wast thou last night?
  HIORDIS. Last night?
  GUNNAR. Thou wast not in the sleeping-room.
  HIORDIS. Know'st thou that?
  GUNNAR. I could not sleep; I tossed in restless dreams of that--
that which befell Thorolf. I dreamt that he came---- No matter; I
awakened. Then meseemed I heard a strange, fair song through all the
house; I arose; I stole hither to the door; here I saw thee sitting
by the log-fire--it burned blue and red--fixing arrow-heads, and
singing sorceries over them.
  HIORDIS. The work was not wasted; for strong is the breast that
must be pierced this day.
  GUNNAR. I understand thee well; thou wouldst have Sigurd slain.
  HIORDIS. Hm, mayhap.
  GUNNAR. Thou shalt never have thy will. I shall keep peace with
Sigurd, howe'er thou goad me.
  HIORDIS (smiling). Dost think so?
  SIGURD. I know it!
  HIORDIS (hands him the bow-string). Tell me, Gunnar--canst loose
this knot?
  GUNNAR (tries it). Nay it is too cunningly and firmly woven.
  HIORDIS (rising). The Norns[1] weave yet more cunningly; their web
is still harder to unravel.
