  ORNULF (calmly). Well may we see that thou art a woman, for thou
usest many words. To what end? If Thorolf is slain, then is his
saga over.
  EGIL. If Thorolf is slain, I shall have no warriors.
  ORNULF. Nay, Egil--we have lost our warriors, but thou and I. (To
HIORDIS.) Thy father sang:
        Jokul's kin for Jokul's slayer
        many a woe shall still be weaving.
Well has thou wrought that his words should come true. (Pauses a
moment, then turns to one of the men.) Where got he his death-wound?
  THE MAN. Right across his brow.
  ORNULF (pleased). Hm; that is an honourable spot; he did not turn
his back. But fell he sideways, or in towards Gunnar's feet?
  THE MAN. Half sideways and half towards Gunnar.
  ORNULF. That bodes but half vengeance; well well,--we shall see!
  GUNNAR (approaching). Ornulf, I know well that all my goods were
naught against thy loss; but crave of me what thou wilt----
  ORNULF (sternly interrupting him). Give me Thorolf's body, and let
me go! Where lies he?
    (GUNNAR points silently to the back.)
  ORNULF (takes a step or two, but turns and says in a voice of
thunder to SIGURD, DAGNY, and others who are preparing to follow
him, sorrowing). Stay! Think ye Ornulf will be followed by a train
of mourners, like a whimpering woman? Stay, I say!--I can bear my
Thorolf alone. (With calm strength.) Sonless I go; but none shall
say that he saw me bowed. (He goes slowly out.)
  HIORDIS (with forced laughter). Ay, let him go as he will; we
shall scarce need many men to face him should he come with strife
again! Now, Dagny--I wot it is the last time thy father shall sail
from Iceland on such a quest!
  SIGURD (indignant). Oh, shame!
  DAGNY (likewise). And thou canst scoff at him--scoff at him, after
all that has befallen?
  HIORDIS. A deed once done, 'tis wise to praise it. This morning
I swore hate and vengeance against Ornulf;--the slaying of Jokul I
might have forgotten--all, save that he cast shame upon my lot. He
called me a leman; if it _be_ so, it shames me not; for Gunnar is
mightier now than thy father; he is greater and more famous than
Sigurd, thine own husband!
  DAGNY (in wild indignation). There thou errest, Hiordis--and even
now shall all men know that thou dwellest under a weakling's roof!
  SIGURD (vehemently). Dagny, beware!
  GUNNAR. A weakling!
  DAGNY. It shall no longer be hidden; I held my peace till thou
didst scoff at my father and my dead brothers; I held my peace while
Ornulf was here, lest he should learn that Thorolf fell by a dastard's
hand. But now--praise Gunnar nevermore for that deed in Iceland; for
Gunnar is a weakling! The sword that lay drawn between thee and the
bear-slayer hangs at my husband's side--and the ring thou didst take
from thy arm thou gavest to Sigurd. (Takes it off and holds if aloft.)
Behold it!
  HIORDIS (wildly). Sigurd!
