In the afternoon the storm held off, and the clearness in the west
seemed to my inexperienced eye the pledge of a fair evening. I finished
my business as quickly as possible, and we set out for Starkfield with
a good chance of getting there for supper. But at sunset the clouds
gathered again, bringing an earlier night, and the snow began to fall
straight and steadily from a sky without wind, in a soft universal
diffusion more confusing than the gusts and eddies of the morning. It
seemed to be a part of the thickening darkness, to be the winter night
itself descending on us layer by layer.
The small ray of Frome's lantern was soon lost in this smothering
medium, in which even his sense of direction, and the bay's homing
instinct, finally ceased to serve us. Two or three times some ghostly
landmark sprang up to warn us that we were astray, and then was sucked
back into the mist; and when we finally regained our road the old horse
began to show signs of exhaustion. I felt myself to blame for having
accepted Frome's offer, and after a short discussion I persuaded him
to let me get out of the sleigh and walk along through the snow at the
bay's side. In this way we struggled on for another mile or two, and
at last reached a point where Frome, peering into what seemed to me
formless night, said: "That's my gate down yonder."
The last stretch had been the hardest part of the way. The bitter cold
and the heavy going had nearly knocked the wind out of me, and I could
feel the horse's side ticking like a clock under my hand.
"Look here, Frome," I began, "there's no earthly use in your going any
farther--" but he interrupted me: "Nor you neither. There's been about
enough of this for anybody."
I understood that he was offering me a night's shelter at the farm, and
without answering I turned into the gate at his side, and followed him
to the barn, where I helped him to unharness and bed down the tired
horse. When this was done he unhooked the lantern from the sleigh,
stepped out again into the night, and called to me over his shoulder:
"This way."
Far off above us a square of light trembled through the screen of snow.
Staggering along in Frome's wake I floundered toward it, and in the
darkness almost fell into one of the deep drifts against the front of
the house. Frome scrambled up the slippery steps of the porch, digging
a way through the snow with his heavily booted foot. Then he lifted his
lantern, found the latch, and led the way into the house. I went
after him into a low unlit passage, at the back of which a ladder-like
staircase rose into obscurity. On our right a line of light marked the
door of the room which had sent its ray across the night; and behind the
door I heard a woman's voice droning querulously.
