Peyton let the whip fall on the ponies' flanks. "Upon my soul," he said
with a laugh, "you must have a nice opinion of both of us."
The words fell chillingly on the blaze of her self-immolation. Would
she never learn to remember that Denis was incapable of mounting such
hypothetical pyres? He might be as alive as herself to the direct demands
of duty, but of its imaginative claims he was robustly unconscious. The
thought brought a wholesome reaction of thankfulness.
"Ah, well," she said, the sunset dilating through her tears, "don't you see
that I can bear to think such things only because they're impossibilities?
It's easy to look over into the depths if one has a rampart to lean on.
What I most pity poor Arthur for is that, instead of that woman lying
there, so dreadfully dead, there might have been a girl like me, so
exquisitely alive because of him; but it seems cruel, doesn't it, to let
what he was not add ever so little to the value of what you are? To let him
contribute ever so little to my happiness by the difference there is
between you?"
She was conscious, as she spoke, of straying again beyond his
reach, through intricacies of sensation new even to her exploring
susceptibilities. A happy literalness usually enabled him to strike a short
cut through such labyrinths, and rejoin her smiling on the other side; but
now she became wonderingly aware that he had been caught in the thick of
her hypothesis.
"It's the difference that makes you care for me, then?" he broke out, with
a kind of violence which seemed to renew his clutch on her wrist.
"The difference?"
He lashed the ponies again, so sharply that a murmur escaped her, and he
drew them up, quivering, with an inconsequent "Steady, boys," at which
their back-laid ears protested.
"It's because I'm moral and respectable, and all that, that you're fond of
me," he went on; "you're--you're simply in love with my virtues. You
couldn't imagine caring if I were down there in the ditch, as you say, with
Arthur?"
The question fell on a silence which seemed to deepen suddenly within
herself. Every thought hung bated on the sense that something was coming:
her whole consciousness became a void to receive it.
"Denis!" she cried.
He turned on her almost savagely. "I don't want your pity, you know," he
burst out. "You can keep that for Arthur. I had an idea women loved men for
themselves--through everything, I mean. But I wouldn't steal your love--I
don't want it on false pretenses, you understand. Go and look into other
men's lives, that's all I ask of you. I slipped into it--it was just a case
of holding my tongue when I ought to have spoken--but I--I--for God's sake,
don't sit there staring! I suppose you've seen all along that I knew he was
married to the woman."
III
The housekeeper's reminding her that Mr. Orme would be at home the next day
for dinner, and did she think he would like the venison with claret sauce
or jelly, roused Kate to the first consciousness of her surroundings.
Her father would return on the morrow: he would give to the dressing of
the venison such minute consideration as, in his opinion, every detail
affecting his comfort or convenience quite obviously merited. And if
it were not the venison it would be something else; if it were not the
housekeeper it would be Mr. Orme, charged with the results of a conference
with his agent, a committee-meeting at his club, or any of the other
incidents which, by happening to himself, became events. Kate found herself
caught in the inexorable continuity of life, found herself gazing over a
scene of ruin lit up by the punctual recurrence of habit as nature's calm
stare lights the morrow of a whirlwind.
