"Does Mr. Darrow say that?" the mother exclaimed, losing sight of her
object in the rush of maternal pleasure.
"He has said nothing else: it seems to be the only subject which loosens
his tongue. I believe he is more anxious to have your son win the
competition than to win it himself."
"He is a very good friend," Mrs. Peyton assented. She was struck by the way
in which the girl led the topic back to the special application of it which
interested her. She had none of the artifices of prudery.
"He feels sure that Mr. Peyton _will_ win," Miss Verney continued.
"It was very interesting to hear his reasons. He is an extraordinarily
interesting man. It must be a tremendous incentive to have such a friend."
Mrs. Peyton hesitated. "The friendship is delightful; but I don't know that
my son needs the incentive. He is almost too ambitious."
Miss Verney looked up brightly. "Can one be?" she said. "Ambition is so
splendid! It must be so glorious to be a man and go crashing through
obstacles, straight up to the thing one is after. I'm afraid I don't care
for people who are superior to success. I like marriage by capture!" She
rose with her wandering laugh, and stood flushed and sparkling above Mrs.
Peyton, who continued to gaze at her gravely.
"What do you call success?" the latter asked. "It means so many different
things."
"Oh, yes, I know--the inward approval, and all that. Well, I'm afraid I
like the other kind: the drums and wreaths and acclamations. If I were Mr.
Peyton, for instance, I'd much rather win the competition than--than be as
disinterested as Mr. Darrow."
Mrs. Peyton smiled. "I hope you won't tell him so," she said half
seriously. "He is over-stimulated already; and he is so easily influenced
by any one who--whose opinion he values."
She stopped abruptly, hearing herself, with a strange inward shock, re-echo
the words which another man's mother had once spoken to her. Miss Verney
did not seem to take the allusion to herself, for she continued to fix on
Mrs. Peyton a gaze of impartial sympathy.
"But we can't help being interested!" she declared.
"It's very kind of you; but I wish you would all help him to feel that his
competition is after all of very little account compared with other
things--his health and his peace of mind, for instance. He is looking
horribly used up."
The girl glanced over her shoulder at Dick, who was just reentering the
room at Darrow's side.
"Oh, do you think so?" she said. "I should have thought it was his friend
who was used up."
Mrs. Peyton followed the glance with surprise. She had been too preoccupied
to notice Darrow, whose crudely modelled face was always of a dull pallour,
to which his slow-moving grey eye lent no relief except in rare moments of
expansion. Now the face had the fallen lines of a death-mask, in which only
the smile he turned on Dick remained alive; and the sight smote her with
compunction. Poor Darrow! He did look horribly fagged out: as if he needed
care and petting and good food. No one knew exactly how he lived. His
rooms, according to Dick's report, were fireless and ill kept, but he stuck
to them because his landlady, whom he had fished out of some financial
plight, had difficulty in obtaining other lodgers. He belonged to no clubs,
and wandered out alone for his meals, mysteriously refusing the hospitality
which his friends pressed on him. It was plain that he was very poor, and
Dick conjectured that he sent what he earned to an aunt in his native
village; but he was so silent about such matters that, outside of his
profession, he seemed to have no personal life.
