"People?"
"Miss Verney, then: I suppose you know."
Darrow paused in front of her. "Yes: he's talked a good deal about her. You
think she wants him to succeed?"
"At any price!"
He drew his brows together. "What do you call any price?"
"Well--herself, in this case, I believe."
Darrow bent a puzzled stare on her. "You mean she attached that amount of
importance to this competition?"
"She seems to regard it as symbolical: that's what I gather. And I'm afraid
she's given him the same impression."
Darrow's sunken face was suffused by his rare smile. "Oh, well, he'll pull
it off then!" he said.
Mrs. Peyton rose with a distracted sigh. "I half hope he won't, for such a
motive," she exclaimed.
"The motive won't show in his work," said Darrow. He added, after a pause
probably devoted to the search for the right word: "He seems to think a
great deal of her."
Mrs. Peyton fixed him thoughtfully. "I wish I knew what _you_ think of
her."
"Why, I never saw her before."
"No; but you talked with her to-day. You've formed an opinion: I think you
came here on purpose."
He chuckled joyously at her discernment: she had always seemed to him
gifted with supernatural insight. "Well, I did want to see her," he owned.
"And what do you think?"
He took a few vague steps and then halted before Mrs. Peyton. "I think," he
said, smiling, "that she likes to be helped first, and to have everything
on her plate at once."
III
At dinner, with a rush of contrition, Mrs. Peyton remembered that she had
after all not spoken to Darrow about his health. He had distracted her
by beginning to talk of Dick; and besides, much as Darrow's opinions
interested her, his personality had never fixed her attention. He always
seemed to her simply a vehicle for the transmission of ideas.
It was Dick who recalled her to a sense of her omission by asking if she
hadn't thought that old Paul looked rather more ragged than usual.
"He did look tired," Mrs. Peyton conceded. "I meant to tell him to take
care of himself."
Dick laughed at the futility of the measure. "Old Paul is never tired: he
can work twenty-five hours out of the twenty-four. The trouble with him is
that he's ill. Something wrong with the machinery, I'm afraid."
"Oh, I'm sorry. Has he seen a doctor?"
"He wouldn't listen to me when I suggested it the other day; but he's so
deuced mysterious that I don't know what he may have done since." Dick
rose, putting down his coffee-cup and half-smoked cigarette. "I've half a
mind to pop in on him tonight and see how he's getting on."
"But he lives at the other end of the earth; and you're tired yourself."
"I'm not tired; only a little strung-up," he returned, smiling. "And
besides, I'm going to meet Gill at the office by and by and put in a
night's work. It won't hurt me to take a look at Paul first."
