"'A half-written play--a play of _yours_ as security?' He looked at me
almost fearfully, as if detecting the first symptoms of insanity. 'Do
you understand anything of business?' he enquired mildly. I laughed and
answered: 'No, not much.'
"He leaned back with closed lids. 'All this excitement has been too much
for me,' he said. 'If you'll excuse me, I'll prepare for my nap.' And I
stumbled out of the room, blindly, like the Italian."
Granice moved away from the mantel-piece, and walked across to the tray
set out with decanters and soda-water. He poured himself a tall glass of
soda-water, emptied it, and glanced at Ascham's dead cigar.
"Better light another," he suggested.
The lawyer shook his head, and Granice went on with his tale. He told
of his mounting obsession--how the murderous impulse had waked in him on
the instant of his cousin's refusal, and he had muttered to himself:
"By God, if you won't, I'll make you." He spoke more tranquilly as the
narrative proceeded, as though his rage had died down once the resolve
to act on it was taken. He applied his whole mind to the question of how
the old man was to be "disposed of." Suddenly he remembered the outcry:
"Those Italians will murder you for a quarter!" But no definite project
presented itself: he simply waited for an inspiration.
Granice and his sister moved to town a day or two after the incident of
the melon. But the cousins, who had returned, kept them informed of
the old man's condition. One day, about three weeks later, Granice,
on getting home, found Kate excited over a report from Wrenfield. The
Italian had been there again--had somehow slipped into the house,
made his way up to the library, and "used threatening language." The
house-keeper found cousin Joseph gasping, the whites of his eyes showing
"something awful." The doctor was sent for, and the attack warded off;
and the police had ordered the Italian from the neighbourhood.
But cousin Joseph, thereafter, languished, had "nerves," and lost his
taste for toast and butter-milk. The doctor called in a colleague, and
the consultation amused and excited the old man--he became once more
an important figure. The medical men reassured the family--too
completely!--and to the patient they recommended a more varied diet:
advised him to take whatever "tempted him." And so one day, tremulously,
prayerfully, he decided on a tiny bit of melon. It was brought up
with ceremony, and consumed in the presence of the house-keeper and a
hovering cousin; and twenty minutes later he was dead...
"But you remember the circumstances," Granice went on; "how suspicion
turned at once on the Italian? In spite of the hint the police had given
him he had been seen hanging about the house since 'the scene.' It was
said that he had tender relations with the kitchen-maid, and the rest
seemed easy to explain. But when they looked round to ask him for the
explanation he was gone--gone clean out of sight. He had been 'warned'
to leave Wrenfield, and he had taken the warning so to heart that no one
ever laid eyes on him again."
