He answered over his shoulder, "For a woman who never reads you make the
most astounding exceptions!"
Her smile was an exasperating concession to the probability that it had
been hot in town or that something had bothered him.
"Do you mean it's not nice to want to read the book?" she asked. "It was
not nice to publish it, certainly; but after all, I'm not responsible
for that, am I?" She paused, and, as he made no answer, went on, still
smiling, "I do read sometimes, you know; and I'm very fond of Margaret
Aubyn's books. I was reading 'Pomegranate Seed' when we first met. Don't
you remember? It was then you told me all about her."
Glennard had turned back into the room and stood staring at his wife.
"All about her?" he repeated, and with the words remembrance came to
him. He had found Miss Trent one afternoon with the novel in her hand,
and moved by the lover's fatuous impulse to associate himself in some
way with whatever fills the mind of the beloved, had broken through
his habitual silence about the past. Rewarded by the consciousness of
figuring impressively in Miss Trent's imagination he had gone on from
one anecdote to another, reviving dormant details of his old Hillbridge
life, and pasturing his vanity on the eagerness with which she received
his reminiscences of a being already clothed in the impersonality of
greatness.
The incident had left no trace in his mind; but it sprang up now like an
old enemy, the more dangerous for having been forgotten. The instinct
of self-preservation--sometimes the most perilous that man can
exercise--made him awkwardly declare--"Oh, I used to see her at people's
houses, that was all;" and her silence as usual leaving room for a
multiplication of blunders, he added, with increased indifference, "I
simply can't see what you can find to interest you in such a book."
She seemed to consider this intently. "You've read it, then?"
"I glanced at it--I never read such things."
"Is it true that she didn't wish the letters to be published?"
Glennard felt the sudden dizziness of the mountaineer on a narrow ledge,
and with it the sense that he was lost if he looked more than a step
ahead.
"I'm sure I don't know," he said; then, summoning a smile, he passed
his hand through her arm. "I didn't have tea at the Dreshams, you know;
won't you give me some now?" he suggested.
That evening Glennard, under pretext of work to be done, shut himself
into the small study opening off the drawing-room. As he gathered up his
papers he said to his wife: "You're not going to sit indoors on such a
night as this? I'll join you presently outside."
But she had drawn her armchair to the lamp. "I want to look at my book,"
she said, taking up the first volume of the "Letters."
Glennard, with a shrug, withdrew into the study. "I'm going to shut
the door; I want to be quiet," he explained from the threshold; and she
nodded without lifting her eyes from the book.
