III
It was one of the laws of Glennard's intercourse with Miss Trent that
he always went to see her the day after he had resolved to give her up.
There was a special charm about the moments thus snatched from the
jaws of renunciation; and his sense of their significance was on
this occasion so keen that he hardly noticed the added gravity of her
welcome.
His feeling for her had become so vital a part of him that her nearness
had the quality of imperceptibly readjusting his point of view, so
that the jumbled phenomena of experience fell at once into a rational
perspective. In this redistribution of values the sombre retrospect
of the previous evening shrank to a mere cloud on the edge of
consciousness. Perhaps the only service an unloved woman can render the
man she loves is to enhance and prolong his illusions about her rival.
It was the fate of Margaret Aubyn's memory to serve as a foil to Miss
Trent's presence, and never had the poor lady thrown her successor into
more vivid relief.
Miss Trent had the charm of still waters that are felt to be renewed
by rapid currents. Her attention spread a tranquil surface to the
demonstrations of others, and it was only in days of storm that one felt
the pressure of the tides. This inscrutable composure was perhaps her
chief grace in Glennard's eyes. Reserve, in some natures, implies merely
the locking of empty rooms or the dissimulation of awkward encumbrances;
but Miss Trent's reticence was to Glennard like the closed door to the
sanctuary, and his certainty of divining the hidden treasure made him
content to remain outside in the happy expectancy of the neophyte.
"You didn't come to the opera last night," she began, in the tone that
seemed always rather to record a fact than to offer a reflection on it.
He answered with a discouraged gesture. "What was the use? We couldn't
have talked."
"Not as well as here," she assented; adding, after a meditative pause,
"As you didn't come I talked to Aunt Virginia instead."
"Ah!" he returned, the fact being hardly striking enough to detach him
from the contemplation of her hands, which had fallen, as was their
wont, into an attitude full of plastic possibilities. One felt them to
be hands that, moving only to some purpose, were capable of intervals of
serene inaction.
"We had a long talk," Miss Trent went on; and she waited again before
adding, with the increased absence of stress that marked her graver
communications, "Aunt Virginia wants me to go abroad with her."
Glennard looked up with a start. "Abroad? When?"
"Now--next month. To be gone two years."
He permitted himself a movement of tender derision. "Does she really?
Well, I want you to go abroad with ME--for any number of years. Which
offer do you accept?"
"Only one of them seems to require immediate consideration," she
returned, with a smile.
Glennard looked at her again. "You're not thinking of it?"
