Mrs. Armiger, the latest embodiment of Dresham's instinct for the
remarkable, was an innocent beauty who for years had distilled
dulness among a set of people now self-condemned by their inability
to appreciate her. Under Dresham's tutelage she had developed into a
"thoughtful woman," who read his leaders in the Radiator and bought the
books he recommended. When a new novel appeared, people wanted to know
what Mrs. Armiger thought of it; and a young gentleman who had made a
trip in Touraine had recently inscribed to her the wide-margined result
of his explorations.
Glennard, leaning back with his head against the rail and a slit of
fugitive blue between his half-closed lids, vaguely wished she wouldn't
spoil the afternoon by making people talk; though he reduced his
annoyance to the minimum by not listening to what was said, there
remained a latent irritation against the general futility of words.
His wife's gift of silence seemed to him the most vivid commentary on
the clumsiness of speech as a means of intercourse, and his eyes had
turned to her in renewed appreciation of this finer faculty when
Mrs. Armiger's voice abruptly brought home to him the underrated
potentialities of language.
"You've read them, of course, Mrs. Glennard?" he heard her ask; and, in
reply to Alexa's vague interrogation--"Why, the 'Aubyn Letters'--it's
the only book people are talking of this week."
Mrs. Dresham immediately saw her advantage. "You HAVEN'T read them? How
very extraordinary! As Mrs. Armiger says, the book's in the air; one
breathes it in like the influenza."
Glennard sat motionless, watching his wife.
"Perhaps it hasn't reached the suburbs yet," she said, with her
unruffled smile.
"Oh, DO let me come to you, then!" Mrs. Touchett cried; "anything for a
change of air! I'm positively sick of the book and I can't put it down.
Can't you sail us beyond its reach, Mr. Flamel?"
Flamel shook his head. "Not even with this breeze. Literature travels
faster than steam nowadays. And the worst of it is that we can't any
of us give up reading; it's as insidious as a vice and as tiresome as a
virtue."
"I believe it IS a vice, almost, to read such a book as the 'Letters,'"
said Mrs. Touchett. "It's the woman's soul, absolutely torn up by the
roots--her whole self laid bare; and to a man who evidently didn't care;
who couldn't have cared. I don't mean to read another line; it's too
much like listening at a keyhole."
"But if she wanted it published?"
"Wanted it? How do we know she did?"
"Why, I heard she'd left the letters to the man--whoever he is--with
directions that they should be published after his death--"
"I don't believe it," Mrs. Touchett declared.
"He's dead then, is he?" one of the men asked.
"Why, you don't suppose if he were alive he could ever hold up his
head again, with these letters being read by everybody?" Mrs. Touchett
protested. "It must have been horrible enough to know they'd been
written to him; but to publish them! No man could have done it and no
woman could have told him to--"
