Mr. Langhope was the first to speak.
"Bessy's as hopelessly vague about business as I am, Tredegar. Why the
deuce Westmore left her everything outright--but he was only a heedless
boy himself."
"Yes. The way he allowed things to go, it's a wonder there was anything
to leave. This Truscomb must be an able fellow."
"Devoted to Dick's interests, I've always understood."
"He makes the mills pay well, at any rate, and that's not so easy
nowadays. But on general principles it's as well he should see that we
mean to look into everything thoroughly. Of course Halford Gaines will
never be more than a good figure-head, but Truscomb must be made to
understand that Mrs. Westmore intends to interest herself personally in
the business."
"Oh, by all means--of course--" Mr. Langhope assented, his light smile
stiffening into a yawn at the mere suggestion.
He rose with an effort, supporting himself on his stick. "I think I'll
turn in myself. There's not a readable book in that God-forsaken
library, and I believe Maria Ansell has gone off with my volume of
Loti."
       *       *       *       *       *
The next morning, when Amherst presented himself at the Westmore door,
he had decided to follow his chief's instructions to the letter, and ask
for Mr. Langhope only. The decision had cost him a struggle, for his
heart was big with its purpose; but though he knew that he must soon
place himself in open opposition to Truscomb, he recognized the prudence
of deferring the declaration of war as long as possible.
On his round of the mills, that morning, he had paused in the room where
Mrs. Dillon knelt beside her mop and pail, and had found her, to his
surprise, comparatively reassured and cheerful. Dr. Disbrow, she told
him, had been in the previous evening, and had told her to take heart
about Jim, and left her enough money to get along for a week--and a
wonderful new cough-mixture that he'd put up for her special. Amherst
found it difficult to listen calmly, with the nurse's words still in his
ears, and the sight before him of Mrs. Dillon's lean shoulder-blades
travelling painfully up and down with the sweep of the mop.
"I don't suppose that cost Truscomb ten dollars," he said to himself, as
the lift lowered him to the factory door; but another voice argued that
he had no right to accuse Disbrow of acting as his brother-in-law's
agent, when the gift to Mrs. Dillon might have been prompted by his own
kindness of heart.
"And what prompted the lie about her husband? Well, perhaps he's an
incurable optimist," he summed up, springing into the Hanaford car.
By the time he reached Mrs. Westmore's door his wrath had subsided, and
he felt that he had himself well in hand. He had taken unusual pains
with his appearance that morning--or rather his mother, learning of the
errand on which Truscomb had sent him, had laid out his
carefully-brushed Sunday clothes, and adjusted his tie with skilful
fingers. "You'd really be handsome, Johnny, if you were only a little
vainer," she said, pushing him away to survey the result; and when he
stared at her, repeating: "I never heard that vanity made a man
better-looking," she responded gaily: "Oh, up to a certain point,
because it teaches him how to use what he's got. So remember," she
charged him, as he smiled and took up his hat, "that you're going to see
a pretty young woman, and that you're not a hundred years old yourself."
