"It all depends," he replied axiomatically, "how large an income you
require."
Mr. Tredegar uttered this remark with the air of one who pronounces on
an important point in law: his lightest observation seemed a decision
handed down from the bench to which he had never ascended. He restored
the cigar to his lips, and sought approval in Mrs. Ansell's expressive
eye.
"Ah, that's it, Bessy. You've that to remember," the older lady
murmured, as if struck by the profundity of the remark.
Mrs. Westmore made an impatient gesture. "We've always had money
enough--Dick was perfectly satisfied." Her voice trembled a little on
her husband's name. "And you don't know what the place is like by
daylight--and the people who come to call!"
"Of course you needn't see any one now, dear," Mrs. Ansell reminded her,
"except the Halford Gaineses."
"I am sure they're bad enough. Juliana Gaines will say: 'My dear, is
that the way widows' veils are worn in New York this autumn?' and
Halford will insist on our going to one of those awful family dinners,
all Madeira and terrapin."
"It's too early for terrapin," Mrs. Ansell smiled consolingly; but Bessy
had reverted to her argument. "Besides, what difference would my coming
here make? I shall never understand anything about business," she
declared.
Mr. Tredegar pondered, and once more removed his cigar. "The necessity
has never arisen. But now that you find yourself in almost sole control
of a large property----"
Mr. Langhope laughed gently. "Apply yourself, Bessy. Bring your masterly
intellect to bear on the industrial problem."
Mrs. Ansell restored the innumerable implements to her writing-case, and
laid her arm with a caressing gesture on Mrs. Westmore's shoulder.
"Don't tease her. She's tired, and she misses the baby."
"I shall get a telegram tomorrow morning," exclaimed the young mother,
brightening.
"Of course you will. 'Cicely has just eaten two boiled eggs and a bowl
of porridge, and is bearing up wonderfully.'"
She drew Mrs. Westmore persuasively to her feet, but the widow refused
to relinquish her hold on her grievance.
"You all think I'm extravagant and careless about money," she broke out,
addressing the room in general from the shelter of Mrs. Ansell's
embrace; "but I know one thing: If I had my way I should begin to
economize by selling this horrible house, instead of leaving it shut up
from one year's end to another."
Her father looked up: proposals of retrenchment always struck him as
business-like when they did not affect his own expenditure. "What do you
think of that, eh, Tredegar?"
The eminent lawyer drew in his thin lips. "From the point of view of
policy, I think unfavourably of it," he pronounced.
Bessy's face clouded, and Mrs. Ansell argued gently: "Really, it's too
late to look so far into the future. Remember, my dear, that we are due
at the mills tomorrow at ten."
The reminder that she must rise early had the effect of hastening Mrs.
Westmore's withdrawal, and the two ladies, after an exchange of
goodnights, left the men to their cigars.
