As he shambled up the stairs with her, arm in arm, she was thinking of
this quality with a new appreciation of its value. Even she and Lansing,
in spite of their unmixed Americanism, their substantial background of
old-fashioned cousinships in New York and Philadelphia, were as
mentally detached, as universally at home, as touts at an International
Exhibition. If they were usually recognized as Americans it was only
because they spoke French so well, and because Nick was too fair to be
"foreign," and too sharp-featured to be English. But Charlie Strefford
was English with all the strength of an inveterate habit; and something
in Susy was slowly waking to a sense of the beauty of habit.
Lounging on the balcony, whither he had followed her without pausing
to remove the stains of travel, Strefford showed himself immensely
interested in the last chapter of her history, greatly pleased at its
having been enacted under his roof, and hugely and flippantly amused
at the firmness with which she refused to let him see Nick till the
latter's daily task was over.
"Writing? Rot! What's he writing? He's breaking you in, my dear; that's
what he's doing: establishing an alibi. What'll you bet he's just
sitting there smoking and reading Le Rire? Let's go and see."
But Susy was firm. "He's read me his first chapter: it's wonderful. It's
a philosophic romance--rather like Marius, you know."
"Oh, yes--I do!" said Strefford, with a laugh that she thought idiotic.
She flushed up like a child. "You're stupid, Streffy. You forget that
Nick and I don't need alibis. We've got rid of all that hyprocrisy by
agreeing that each will give the other a hand up when either of us wants
a change. We've not married to spy and lie, and nag each other; we've
formed a partnership for our mutual advantage."
"I see; that's capital. But how can you be sure that, when Nick wants a
change, you'll consider it for his advantage to have one?"
It was the point that had always secretly tormented Susy; she often
wondered if it equally tormented Nick.
"I hope I shall have enough common sense--" she began.
"Oh, of course: common sense is what you're both bound to base your
argument on, whichever way you argue."
This flash of insight disconcerted her, and she said, a little
irritably: "What should you do then, if you married?--Hush, Streffy! I
forbid you to shout like that--all the gondolas are stopping to look!"
"How can I help it?" He rocked backward and forward in his chair. "'If
you marry,' she says: 'Streffy, what have you decided to do if you
suddenly become a raving maniac?'"
"I said no such thing. If your uncle and your cousin died, you'd marry
to-morrow; you know you would."
"Oh, now you're talking business." He folded his long arms and leaned
over the balcony, looking down at the dusky ripples streaked with fire.
"In that case I should say: 'Susan, my dear--Susan--now that by
the merciful intervention of Providence you have become Countess of
Altringham in the peerage of Great Britain, and Baroness Dunsterville
and d'Amblay in the peerages of Ireland and Scotland, I'll thank you to
remember that you are a member of one of the most ancient houses in the
United Kingdom--and not to get found out.'"
