"I'll try to," he answered, humouring her, "but as I've been forbidden
to ask for her, I am afraid your efforts will be wasted."
The servant to whom he gave his message showed him into the library,
with a request that he should wait; and there, to his surprise, he
found, not the white-moustached gentleman whom he had guessed the night
before to be Mr. Langhope, but a young lady in deep black, who turned on
him a look of not unfriendly enquiry.
It was not Bessy's habit to anticipate the clock; but her distaste for
her surroundings, and the impatience to have done with the tedious
duties awaiting her, had sent her downstairs before the rest of the
party. Her life had been so free from tiresome obligations that she had
but a small stock of patience to meet them with; and already, after a
night at Hanaford, she was pining to get back to the comforts of her own
country-house, the soft rut of her daily habits, the funny chatter of
her little girl, the long stride of her Irish hunter across the
Hempstead plains--to everything, in short, that made it conceivably
worth while to get up in the morning.
The servant who ushered in Amherst, thinking the room empty, had not
mentioned his name; and for a moment he and his hostess examined each
other in silence, Bessy puzzled at the unannounced appearance of a
good-looking young man who might have been some one she had met and
forgotten, while Amherst felt his self-possession slipping away into the
depths of a pair of eyes so dark-lashed and deeply blue that his only
thought was one of wonder at his previous indifference to women's eyes.
"Mrs. Westmore?" he asked, restored to self-command by the perception
that his longed-for opportunity was at hand; and Bessy, his voice
confirming the inference she had drawn from his appearance, replied with
a smile: "I am Mrs. Westmore. But if you have come to see me, I ought to
tell you that in a moment I shall be obliged to go out to our mills. I
have a business appointment with our manager, but if----"
She broke off, gracefully waiting for him to insert his explanation.
"I have come from the manager; I am John Amherst--your assistant
manager," he added, as the mention of his name apparently conveyed no
enlightenment.
Mrs. Westmore's face changed, and she let slip a murmur of surprise
that would certainly have flattered Amherst's mother if she could have
heard it; but it had an opposite effect on the young man, who inwardly
accused himself of having tried to disguise his trade by not putting on
his everyday clothes.
"How stupid of me! I took you for--I had no idea; I didn't expect Mr.
Truscomb here," his employer faltered in embarrassment; then their eyes
met and both smiled.
"Mr. Truscomb sent me to tell you that he is ill, and will not be able
to show you the mills today. I didn't mean to ask for you--I was told to
give the message to Mr. Langhope," Amherst scrupulously explained,
trying to repress the sudden note of joy in his voice.
