"Good Lord--were you there so long?"
"Five years. I stuck it out longer than any of the others." She spoke as
though it were something to be proud of.
"Well, thank God you're out of it now!"
Again a just perceptible shadow crossed her face. "Yes--I'm out of it
now fast enough."
"And what--if I may ask--are you doing next?"
She brooded a moment behind drooped lids; then, with a touch of hauteur:
"I'm going to Paris: to study for the stage."
"The stage?" Darrow stared at her, dismayed. All his confused
contradictory impressions assumed a new aspect at this announcement; and
to hide his surprise he added lightly: "Ah--then you will have Paris,
after all!"
"Hardly Lady Ulrica's Paris. It s not likely to be roses, roses all the
way."
"It's not, indeed." Real compassion prompted him to continue: "Have you
any--any influence you can count on?"
She gave a somewhat flippant little laugh. "None but my own. I've never
had any other to count on."
He passed over the obvious reply. "But have you any idea how the
profession is over-crowded? I know I'm trite----"
"I've a very clear idea. But I couldn't go on as I was."
"Of course not. But since, as you say, you'd stuck it out longer than
any of the others, couldn't you at least have held on till you were sure
of some kind of an opening?"
She made no reply for a moment; then she turned a listless glance to the
rain-beaten window. "Oughtn't we be starting?" she asked, with a lofty
assumption of indifference that might have been Lady Ulrica's.
Darrow, surprised by the change, but accepting her rebuff as a phase of
what he guessed to be a confused and tormented mood, rose from his seat
and lifted her jacket from the chair-back on which she had hung it to
dry. As he held it toward her she looked up at him quickly.
"The truth is, we quarrelled," she broke out, "and I left last night
without my dinner--and without my salary."
"Ah--" he groaned, with a sharp perception of all the sordid dangers
that might attend such a break with Mrs. Murrett.
"And without a character!" she added, as she slipped her arms into the
jacket. "And without a trunk, as it appears--but didn't you say that,
before going, there'd be time for another look at the station?"
There was time for another look at the station; but the look again
resulted in disappointment, since her trunk was nowhere to be found in
the huge heap disgorged by the newly-arrived London express. The fact
caused Miss Viner a moment's perturbation; but she promptly adjusted
herself to the necessity of proceeding on her journey, and her decision
confirmed Darrow's vague resolve to go to Paris instead of retracing his
way to London.
Miss Viner seemed cheered at the prospect of his company, and sustained
by his offer to telegraph to Charing Cross for the missing trunk; and
he left her to wait in the fly while he hastened back to the telegraph
office. The enquiry despatched, he was turning away from the desk when
another thought struck him and he went back and indited a message to his
servant in London: "If any letters with French post-mark received since
departure forward immediately to Terminus Hotel Gare du Nord Paris."
