"John, have you considered what you mean to do next?"
He threw back his head to meet her gaze.
"About this Dillon case," she continued. "How are all these
investigations going to help you?"
Their eyes rested on each other for a moment; then he said coldly: "You
are afraid I am going to lose my place."
She flushed like a girl and murmured: "It's not the kind of place I ever
wanted to see you in!"
"I know it," he returned in a gentler tone, clasping one of the hands on
his chair-back. "I ought to have followed a profession, like my
grandfather; but my father's blood was too strong in me. I should never
have been content as anything but a working-man."
"How can you call your father a working-man? He had a genius for
mechanics, and if he had lived he would have been as great in his way as
any statesman or lawyer."
Amherst smiled. "Greater, to my thinking; but he gave me his
hard-working hands without the genius to create with them. I wish I had
inherited more from him, or less; but I must make the best of what I am,
rather than try to be somebody else." He laid her hand caressingly
against his cheek. "It's hard on you, mother--but you must bear with
me."
"I have never complained, John; but now you've chosen your work, it's
natural that I should want you to stick to it."
He rose with an impatient gesture. "Never fear; I could easily get
another job----"
"What? If Truscomb black-listed you? Do you forget that Scotch overseer
who was here when we came?"
"And whom Truscomb hounded out of the trade? I remember him," said
Amherst grimly; "but I have an idea I am going to do the hounding this
time."
His mother sighed, but her reply was cut short by the noisy opening of
the outer door. Amherst seemed to hear the sound with relief. "There's
Duplain," he said, going into the passage; but on the threshold he
encountered, not the young Alsatian overseer who boarded with them, but
a small boy who said breathlessly: "Mr. Truscomb wants you to come down
bimeby."
"This evening? To the office?"
"No--he's sick a-bed."
The blood rushed to Amherst's face, and he had to press his lips close
to check an exclamation. "Say I'll come as soon as I've had supper," he
said.
The boy vanished, and Amherst turned back to the sitting-room.
"Truscomb's ill--he has sent for me; and I saw Mrs. Westmore arriving
tonight! Have supper, mother--we won't wait for Duplain." His face still
glowed with excitement, and his eyes were dark with the concentration of
his inward vision.
"Oh, John, John!" Mrs. Amherst sighed, crossing the passage to the
kitchen.
III
AT the manager's door Amherst was met by Mrs. Truscomb, a large flushed
woman in a soiled wrapper and diamond earrings.
"Mr. Truscomb's very sick. He ought not to see you. The doctor thinks--"
she began.
