Now, as Ted thought of illness and pestilence spreading across the
thinly settled state, his first and keenest apprehension was for the
safety of his friend. His work done, he went quickly back to the house
where the doctor was already standing on the doorstep again.
"They are not bad cases, either of them," he was saying to Ted's aunt.
"If they have good care there is no danger, but if they don't--then
Heaven help them, I can't."
Ted came close and pulled his sleeve.
"Tell me," he questioned quickly, "Michael Martin isn't sick, is he?"
"Michael Martin?" repeated the doctor. "A big Irishman in the cabin at
the upper edge of Big Basin? Yes, he's down sick as can be, poor fellow,
with no one but a gray old collie dog, about the age of himself, I
should think, to keep him company."
He turned back to give a few last directions.
"I suppose you are master of the house with your uncle laid up," he said
to Ted again, "and I will have to apply to you to lend me a fresh horse
so that I can go on."
"You're never going on to-night?" exclaimed Ted; "why, you have been
riding for all you were worth, all day!"
"Yes, and all the night before," returned the doctor cheerfully, "but
this is no time to spare horses or doctors. Good gracious, boy, what's
that?" For Pedro, tall and white in the dark, standing on his hind legs
to insert an inquisitive puppy nose between the doctor's collar and his
neck, was an unexpected and startling apparition.
"That's my dog," Ted explained proudly; "Jim McKenzie, over on Arran
Creek, gave him to me; he has a lot of them, you know. Pedro is only
half grown now, he is going to be a lot bigger when he is a year old.
Yes, I'll bring you a horse right away, yours couldn't go another mile."
When, a few minutes later, the sound of hoofs came clattering up from
the stables it seemed certain that there were more than four of them.
"What's this?" the doctor inquired, seeing a second horse with
saddlebags and blanket roll strapped in place and observing Ted's boots
and riding coat.
"My aunt and the girls will take care of Uncle," the boy replied, "so I
am going out to see Michael Martin. You can tell me what to do for him
as we ride up the trail."
They could feel the sharp wind almost before they began climbing the
ridge. So far, summer had lingered into November, but the weather was
plainly changing now and there had been reports of heavy snowfalls in
the mountains. The stars shone dimly, as though through a veil of mist.
"You had better push on as fast as you can," advised the doctor as they
came to the parting of their ways. "When a man is as sick as Michael,
what ever is to happen, comes quickly." His horse jumped and snorted.
"There's that white puppy of yours again. What a ghost he is! He is
rather big to take with you to a sick man's cabin."
