She was in a fine rage by the time she reached the tavern, where she sat
down near the stove and looked around to see what girls the boys had
invited to dance.
Suddenly a stranger in hunter's green came in. He sat down at a table
near Katcha and ordered drink. When the serving maid brought the beer,
he reached over to Katcha and asked her to drink with him. At first she
was much taken back at this attention, then she pursed her lips coyly
and pretended to refuse, but finally she accepted.
When they had finished drinking, he pulled a ducat from his pocket,
tossed it to the piper, and called out:
"Clear the floor, boys! This is for Katcha and me alone!"
The boys snickered and the girls giggled, hiding behind each other and
stuffing their aprons into their mouths so that Katcha wouldn't hear
them laughing. But Katcha wasn't noticing them at all. Katcha was
dancing with a fine young man! If the whole world had been laughing at
her, Katcha wouldn't have cared.
The stranger danced with Katcha all afternoon and all evening. Not once
did he dance with any one else. He bought her marzipan and sweet drinks
and, when the hour came to go home, he escorted her through the village.
"Ah," sighed Katcha when they reached her cottage and it was time to
part, "I wish I could dance with you forever!"
"Very well," said the stranger. "Come with me."
"Where do you live?"
"Put your arm around my neck and I'll tell you."
Katcha put both arms about his neck and instantly the man changed into a
devil and flew straight down to hell.
At the gates of hell he stopped and knocked.
His comrades came and opened the gates and when they saw that he was
exhausted, they tried to take Katcha off his neck. But Katcha held on
tight and nothing they could do or say would make her budge.
The devil finally had to appear before the Prince of Darkness himself
with Katcha still glued to his neck.
"What's that thing you've got around your neck?" the Prince asked.
So the devil told how as he was walking about on earth he had heard
Katcha say she would dance with the devil himself if he asked her. "So I
asked her to dance with me," the devil said. "Afterwards just to
frighten her a little I brought her down to hell. And now she won't let
go of me!"
"Serve you right, you dunce!" the Prince said. "How often have I told
you to use common sense when you go wandering around on earth! You might
have known Katcha would never let go of a man once she had him!"
"I beg your Majesty to make her let go!" the poor devil implored.
"I will not!" said the Prince. "You'll have to carry her back to earth
yourself and get rid of her as best you can. Perhaps this will be a
lesson to you."
