Nobody said a word to the fisherman, who stood staring about him like an
owl. "I wonder," said he to himself at last, "if they will give a body a
bite to eat by-and-by?" for, to tell the truth, the good supper he had
come away from at home had left a sharp hunger gnawing at his insides,
and he longed for something good and warm to fill the empty place. But
time passed, and not so much as a crust of bread was brought to stay his
stomach.
By-and-by the clock struck twelve, and then the two who sat upon the
throne arose. The beautiful lady took the magician by the hand, and,
turning to those who stood around, said, in a loud voice, "Behold him
who alone is worthy to possess the jewel of jewels! Unto him do I give
it, and with it all power of powers!" Thereon she opened a golden casket
that stood beside her, and brought thence a little crystal ball, about
as big as a pigeon's egg, in which was something that glistened like a
spark of fire. The magician took the crystal ball and thrust it into his
bosom; but what it was the fisherman could not guess, and if you do not
know I shall not tell you.
Then for the first time the beautiful lady seemed to notice the
fisherman. She beckoned him, and when he stood beside her two men came
carrying a chest. The chief treasurer opened it, and it was full of bags
of gold money. "How will you have it?" said the beautiful lady.
"Have what?" said the fisherman.
"Have the pay for your labor?" said the beautiful lady.
"I will," said the fisherman, promptly, "take it in my hat."
"So be it," said the beautiful lady. She waved her hand, and the chief
treasurer took a bag from the chest, untied it, and emptied a cataract
of gold into the fur cap. The fisherman had never seen so much wealth in
all his life before, and he stood like a man turned to stone.
"Is all this mine?" said the fisherman.
"It is," said the beautiful lady.
"Then God bless your pretty eyes," said the fisherman.
Then the magician kissed the beautiful lady, and, beckoning to the
fisherman, left the throne room the same way that they had come. The
noblemen, in silks and satins and velvets, marched ahead, and back they
went through the other apartments, until at last they came to the door.
Out they stepped, and then what do you suppose happened!
If the wonderful palace had grown like a bubble, like a bubble it
vanished. There the two stood on the sea-shore, with nothing to be seen
but rocks and sand and water, and the starry sky overhead. The fisherman
shook his cap of gold, and it jingled and tinkled, and was as heavy as
lead. If it was not all a dream, he was rich for life. "But anyhow,"
said he, "they might have given a body a bite to eat."
