The bird-messengers hastened away as fast as ever their wings could
carry them. They summoned the warm sunshine and the soft south wind and
bade them make haste to the Earth King. They, of course, turned back as
they were commanded, but before they reached home again, each one of
them was seized with a strange, restless, uneasy feeling right in the
middle of his feathers. It must have been the secret trying to get out.
One by one they stole past the King's house under cover of the night and
made their way to the north country. And when the morning came, there
they were, sitting on the fence posts and in the apple trees, just
bursting with the happy secret of the King.
    _Then the robin pipped, and the bluebird blew;
    The sparrow chipped, and the swallow, too:
    "We know something,--we won't tell,--
    Somebody's coming,--you know well.
    This is his name ('twixt you and me),
          S-P-R-I-N-G."_
The people were very happy when they heard what the birds said, and with
much excitement began to get ready for the springtime.
Now, of course, the King knew nothing about all this, and was very happy
in thinking of the surprise that he was to give the people. He took the
warm sunshine and the soft south wind for companions, and made his way
in all haste to the land of ice and snow. As he arrived, with his
delightful secret, as he thought, hidden in his heart, he was amazed to
find an old woman sitting in her doorway knitting.
"Why are you sitting here?" he asked. "Why are you not within, warming
your feet by the fire?"
"Why, don't you know?" she said, "spring is coming!"
"Spring?" he asked, almost roughly; "how do you know?"
"Oh," said she with a smile, trying not to look at a robin that turned
his back behind the picket fence, hoping that if the King saw him he
might think he was an English sparrow, "a little bird told me."
The King walked up the street, looking gloomy enough, and soon came
across a gardener with his rake, uncovering the crocuses and the
daffodils.
"Why do you do this, my good man? Surely your flowers will freeze. You
had much better be covering them up."
"Oh, no," he said, straightening his bent back, "spring is coming."
"Spring," said the King; "how do _you_ know?"
"Oh," said the gardener, with a grin, and a twinkle in his left eye, as
he caught sight of a bluebird peeking half-scared around the limb of a
near-by apple tree, "a little bird told me."
Then the disgraceful story all came out: that
    _The robin pipped, and the bluebird blew;
    The sparrow chipped, and the swallow, too:
    "We know something,--we won't tell,--
    Somebody's coming,--you know well.
    This is his name ('twixt you and me),
          S-P-R-I-N-G."_
My! but wasn't the Earth King disgusted! And weren't the bird-messengers
ashamed to come when he sternly called them! Each laid his little
pointed nose on his little scratchy toes, and dropped his eyes and
uttered never a word.
