Pedro had come dashing up the trail behind them, in spite of his having
been ordered sternly to stay at home. At six months old the sense of
obedience is not quite so great as it should be, and the love of going
on an expedition is irresistible.
"It would take me forever to drive him home now," Ted admitted; "I will
take him along to Jim McKenzie's and leave him there with his brothers.
I can make Arran Creek by breakfast time and ought to get to Michael's
not long after noon. Well, so long!"
The stars grew more dim and the wind keener as he rode on through the
night. His pony cantered steadily with the easy rocking-horse motion
that came near to lulling him to sleep. Pedro paddled alongside, his
long legs covering the miles with untiring energy. They stopped at
midnight to drink from the stream they were crossing, to rest a little
and to eat some lunch from the saddlebags. Then they pressed on once
more, on and on, until gray and crimson began to show behind the
mountains to the eastward, and the big white house of Arran at last
came into sight.
Jim McKenzie's place was bigger than the ordinary ranch house, for there
were gabled roofs showing through the group of trees, there were tall
barns and a wide fenced paddock where lived the white Russian wolfhounds
for which the Arran ranch was famous. A deep-voiced chorus of welcome
was going up as Ted and Pedro came down the trail. The puppy responded
joyfully and went bounding headlong to the foot of the slope to greet
his brothers. It was a beautiful sight to see the band of great dogs,
their coats like silver in the early morning light, romping together
like a dozen kittens, pursuing each other in circles, checking,
wheeling, rolling one another over, leaping back and forth over the low
fences that divided the paddock, with the grace and free agility of
deer. Early as it was, Jim McKenzie was walking down to the stables and
stopped to greet Ted as, weary and dusty, he rode through the gate.
"Sure we'll keep Pedro," he said when he had heard the boy's errand.
"Yes, we've a good many sick here; I'd have sent out on the range myself
but there was nobody to spare. They tell me the herds of sheep are in
terrible confusion, and most of the herders are down. Poor old Michael
Martin, I hope you get there in time to help him. Turn your horse into
the corral, we'll give you another to go on with. Now come in to
breakfast." Ted snatched a hurried meal, threw his saddle upon a fresh
pony, and set off again. For a long distance he could hear the
lamentations of Pedro protesting loudly at the paddock gate. The way,
after he passed Arran Creek, led out into the flat country of the Big
Basin with the sagebrush-dotted plain stretching far ahead. It seemed
that he rode endlessly and arrived nowhere, so long was the way and so
unchanging the landscape. Once, as he crossed a stream, a deer rose,
stamping and snorting among the low bushes, and fled away toward the
hills, seeming scarcely to touch the ground as it went. Later, something
quick and silent, and looking like a reddish-brown collie, leaped from
the sagebrush and scudded across the trail almost under his horse's
feet.
