[Illustration: WHERE TO LAY THE BLAME]
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 2: Reprinted by special permission from _Stories and Tales_,
by Hans Christian Andersen. Copyright by Houghton, Mifflin Company.]
WHERE TO LAY THE BLAME[3]
     Many and many a man has come to trouble--so he will say--by
     following his wife's advice. This is how it was with a man of whom
     I shall tell you.
THERE was once upon a time a fisherman who had fished all day long and
had caught not so much as a sprat. So at night there he sat by the fire,
rubbing his knees and warming his shins, and waiting for supper that his
wife was cooking for him, and his hunger was as sharp as vinegar, and
his temper hot enough to fry fat.
While he sat there grumbling and growling and trying to make himself
comfortable and warm, there suddenly came a knock at the door. The good
woman opened it, and there stood an old man, clad all in red from head
to foot, and with a snowy beard at his chin as white as winter snow.
The fisherman's wife stood gasping and staring at the strange figure,
but the old man in red walked straight into the hut. "Bring your nets,
fisherman," said he, "and come with me. There is something that I want
you to catch for me, and if I have luck I will pay you for your fishing
as never fisherman was paid before."
"Not I," said the fisherman; "I go out no more this night. I have been
fishing all day long until my back is nearly broken, and have caught
nothing, and now I am not such a fool as to go out and leave a good
supper and a warm fire at your bidding." But the fisherman's wife had
listened to what the old man had said about paying for the job, and she
was of a different mind from her husband. "Come," said she, "the old man
promises to pay you well. This is not a chance to be lost, I can tell
you, and my advice to you is that you go."
The fisherman shook his head. No, he would not go; he had said he would
not, and he would not. But the wife only smiled and said again, "My
advice to you is that you go."
The fisherman grumbled and grumbled, and swore that he would not go. The
wife said nothing but one thing. She did not argue; she did not lose her
temper; she only said to everything that he said, "My advice to you is
that you go."
At last the fisherman's anger boiled over. "Very well," said he,
spitting his words at her; "if you drive me out into the night, I
suppose I will have to go." And then he spoke the words that so many men
say: "Many a man has come to trouble by following his wife's advice."
Then down he took his fur cap and up he took his nets, and off he and
the old man marched through the moonlight, their shadows bobbing along
like black spiders behind them.
