"I shall get kisses, not cuffs," replied the peasant. "My wife will say,
'Whatever the good-man does is right.'"
"A wager!" cried the Englishmen, "for a hundred pounds?"
"Say rather a bushelful," quoth the peasant, "and I can only lay my
bushel of apples with myself and the good-wife, but that will be more
than full measure, I trow."
"Done!" cried they. And the innkeeper's cart was brought out forthwith,
the Englishmen got into it, the peasant got into it, the rotten apples
got into it, and away they sped to the peasant's cottage.
"Good evening, wife."
"Same to you, good-man."
"Well, I have exchanged the horse, not sold it."
"Of course," said the wife, taking his hand, and in her eagerness to
listen noticing neither the sack nor the strangers.
"I exchanged the horse for a cow."
"O! how delightful! now we can have milk, butter, and cheese, on our
table. What a capital idea!"
"Yes, but I exchanged the cow for a sheep."
"Better and better!" cried the wife. "You are always so thoughtful; we
have only just grass enough for a sheep. But now we shall have ewe's
milk, and ewe's cheese, and woolen stockings, nay, woolen jackets too;
and a cow would not give us that; she loses all her hairs. But you are
always such a clever fellow."
"But the ewe I exchanged again for a goose."
"What! shall we really keep Michaelmas this year, good-man? You are
always thinking of what will please me, and that was a beautiful
thought. The goose can be tethered to the willow-tree and grow fat for
Michaelmas Day."
"But I gave the goose away for a hen," said the peasant.
"A hen? well, that was a good exchange," said his wife. "A hen will lay
eggs, sit upon them, and we shall have chickens. Fancy! a hen-yard! that
is just the thing I have always wished for most."
"Ah, but I exchanged the hen for a sack of mellow apples."
"Then I must give thee a kiss," cried the wife. "Thanks, my own husband.
And now I have something to tell. When you were gone I thought how I
could get a right good dinner ready for you: omelets with parsley. Now I
had the eggs, but not the parsley. So I went over to the schoolmaster's;
they have parsley, I know, but the woman is so crabbed, she wanted
something for it. Now what could I give her? nothing grows in our
garden, not even a rotten apple, not even that had I for her; but now I
can give her ten, nay, a whole sackful. That is famous, good-man!" and
she kissed him again.
"Well done!" cried the Englishmen. "Always down hill, and always happy!
Such a sight is worth the money!" And so quite contentedly they paid the
bushelful of gold pieces to the peasant, who had got kisses, not cuffs,
by his bargains.
Certainly virtue is her own reward, when the wife is sure that her
husband is the wisest man in the world, and that whatever he does is
right. So now you have heard this old story that was once told to me,
and I hope have learnt the moral.
