"A coyote, out in the open in daylight," he reflected, somewhat
startled. "It must have been cold up in the mountains to make them so
bold. That looks bad for the sheep."
It was disturbing also to see how many scattered sheep he was beginning
to pass, little bands, solitary ewes with half-grown lambs trotting at
their heels, adventurous yearlings straying farther and farther from
their comrades. Once or twice he tried to drive them together, but owing
to his haste and his inexperience with their preposterous ways, he had
very little success.
"There is going to be bad weather, too," he observed as he saw the blue
sky disappear beneath an overcast of gray. "I had better get on to
Michael's as fast as I can."
He saw the little mud and log cabin at last, tucked away among some
stunted trees near the shoulder of a low ridge. It looked deceivingly
near, yet he rode and rode and could not reach it. White flakes were
flying now, fitfully at first, then thicker and thicker until he could
scarcely see. His growing misgivings gave place to greater and greater
anxiety concerning his friend, while there ran through his mind again
and again the doctor's words, "Whatever is to happen, comes quickly."
It was past noon and had begun to seem as though he had been riding
forever when he breasted the final slope at last, jumped from his horse,
and thundered at the cabin door. The whine of a dog answered him from
within, and a faint voice, broken but still audible, told him that
Michael was alive. The cabin, so it seemed to him as he entered, was a
good ten degrees colder than it was outside. Poor Michael, helpless and
shivering on the bunk in the corner, looked like the shrunken ghost of
the giant Irishman he had known before. Ted rekindled the fire, emptied
his saddlebags, piled his extra blankets upon the bed and, with a skill
bred of long practice in camp cookery, set about preparing a meal.
Michael was so hoarse as to be almost unable to speak and so weak that
his mind wandered in the midst of a sentence, yet all of his thoughts
were on the care of his sheep.
"When I felt the sickness coming on me I tried to drive them in," he
whispered, "but they broke and scattered and I fell beside the
trail--they must get in--snow coming--"
In an hour his fever rose again, he tossed and muttered with only
fleeting intervals of consciousness. Ted had found food and shelter for
his horse in the sheep shed, and had settled down to his task of anxious
watching. The snow fell faster and faster so that darkness came on by
mid-afternoon. He had tried to drive the old collie dog out to herd in
the sheep, but the poor old creature would not leave its master and,
even when pushed outside, remained whining beside the door.
"He couldn't do much anyway," sighed Ted as he let him in again. "How
those coyotes yelp! I wish, after all, that I had brought Pedro."
