"Hush!" the shepherd whispered back. "I don't care anything about the
duke. This is to warn you! You know Katcha? She's alive and she's
looking for you!"
The instant the devil heard the name of Katcha he turned and fled.
All the people cheered the shepherd, while the shepherd himself laughed
in his sleeve to think that he had taken in the devil so easily.
As for the duke, he was so grateful to the shepherd that he made him his
chief counselor and loved him as a brother. And well he might, for the
shepherd was a sensible man and always gave him sound advice.
[Ilustration: THE WHITE DOGS OF ARRAN]
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 5: From _Czechoslovak Fairy Tales_, by Parker Fillmore.
Copyright by Harcourt, Brace & Company.]
THE WHITE DOGS OF ARRAN[6]
FOR a long hour, on that November afternoon, my brother Ted had been
standing at the gate below the ranch house, waiting and waiting, while
the twilight filled the round hollow of the valley as water slowly fills
a cup. At last the figure of a rider, silhouetted against the
rose-colored sky, came into view along the crest of the rocky ridge. The
little cow pony was loping as swiftly as the rough trail would permit,
but to Ted's impatient eyes it seemed to crawl as slowly as a fly on a
window pane. Although the horseman looked like a cow puncher, at that
distance, with his slouch hat and big saddle, the eager boy knew that it
was the district doctor making his far rounds over the range. A swift
epidemic had been sweeping over Montana, passing from one ranch to
another and leaving much illness and suffering behind. Ted's uncle and
the cousin who was his own age had both been stricken two days before
and it seemed that the doctor would never come.
"I'm glad you are here," he said as the doctor's pony, covered with foam
and quivering with fatigue, passed through the open gate. "We have two
patients for you."
The man nodded.
"Fever, I suppose," he commented, "and aching bones, and don't know what
to make of themselves because they have never been sick before? I have
seen a hundred such cases in the last few days. It is bad at all the
ranches, but the sheep herders, off in their cabins by themselves, are
hit particularly hard."
He slipped from the saddle and strode into the house, leaving Ted to
take the tired pony around to the stables. It was very dark now and
growing cold, but he felt warm and comforted, somehow, since the doctor
had come. He heard running feet behind him and felt a dog's nose, cold
and wet, thrust into his hand. It was Pedro, the giant, six months' old
wolf hound puppy, long legged and shaggy haired, the pride of Ted's life
and the best beloved of all his possessions. The big dog followed his
master into the stable and sat down, blinking solemnly in the circle of
lantern light, while the boy was caring for the doctor's horse and
bedding it down. Ted's thoughts were very busy, now with his anxieties
about his uncle, now racing out over the range to wonder how those in
the stricken ranch houses and lonely cabins might be faring. There was
the ranch on Arran Creek--people there were numerous enough to care for
each other. It might be worse at Thompson's Crossing, and, oh, how would
it be with those shepherds who lived in tiny cottages here and there
along the Big Basin, so far from neighbors that often for months they
saw no other faces than the wooly vacant ones of their thousands of
sheep.
