What is it?  He thought for a moment, and looked round at the rest of the
room.  It was strange, but everything seemed to have its double in this
invisible wall of clear water.  Yes, picture for picture was repeated,
and couch for couch.  The sleeping Faun that lay in the alcove by the
doorway had its twin brother that slumbered, and the silver Venus that
stood in the sunlight held out her arms to a Venus as lovely as herself.
Was it Echo?  He had called to her once in the valley, and she had
answered him word for word.  Could she mock the eye, as she mocked the
voice?  Could she make a mimic world just like the real world?  Could the
shadows of things have colour and life and movement?  Could it be that—?
He started, and taking from his breast the beautiful white rose, he
turned round, and kissed it.  The monster had a rose of its own, petal
for petal the same!  It kissed it with like kisses, and pressed it to its
heart with horrible gestures.
When the truth dawned upon him, he gave a wild cry of despair, and fell
sobbing to the ground.  So it was he who was misshapen and hunchbacked,
foul to look at and grotesque.  He himself was the monster, and it was at
him that all the children had been laughing, and the little Princess who
he had thought loved him—she too had been merely mocking at his ugliness,
and making merry over his twisted limbs.  Why had they not left him in
the forest, where there was no mirror to tell him how loathsome he was?
Why had his father not killed him, rather than sell him to his shame?
The hot tears poured down his cheeks, and he tore the white rose to
pieces.  The sprawling monster did the same, and scattered the faint
petals in the air.  It grovelled on the ground, and, when he looked at
it, it watched him with a face drawn with pain.  He crept away, lest he
should see it, and covered his eyes with his hands.  He crawled, like
some wounded thing, into the shadow, and lay there moaning.
And at that moment the Infanta herself came in with her companions
through the open window, and when they saw the ugly little dwarf lying on
the ground and beating the floor with his clenched hands, in the most
fantastic and exaggerated manner, they went off into shouts of happy
laughter, and stood all round him and watched him.
‘His dancing was funny,’ said the Infanta; ‘but his acting is funnier
still.  Indeed he is almost as good as the puppets, only of course not
quite so natural.’  And she fluttered her big fan, and applauded.
But the little Dwarf never looked up, and his sobs grew fainter and
fainter, and suddenly he gave a curious gasp, and clutched his side.  And
then he fell back again, and lay quite still.
