SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What then?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  My dear Sir Robert, what then?  You are ruined, that is
all!  Remember to what a point your Puritanism in England has brought
you.  In old days nobody pretended to be a bit better than his
neighbours.  In fact, to be a bit better than one's neighbour was
considered excessively vulgar and middle-class.  Nowadays, with our
modern mania for morality, every one has to pose as a paragon of purity,
incorruptibility, and all the other seven deadly virtues--and what is the
result?  You all go over like ninepins--one after the other.  Not a year
passes in England without somebody disappearing.  Scandals used to lend
charm, or at least interest, to a man--now they crush him.  And yours is
a very nasty scandal. You couldn't survive it.  If it were known that as
a young man, secretary to a great and important minister, you sold a
Cabinet secret for a large sum of money, and that that was the origin of
your wealth and career, you would be hounded out of public life, you
would disappear completely.  And after all, Sir Robert, why should you
sacrifice your entire future rather than deal diplomatically with your
enemy?  For the moment I am your enemy.  I admit it!  And I am much
stronger than you are.  The big battalions are on my side.  You have a
splendid position, but it is your splendid position that makes you so
vulnerable.  You can't defend it!  And I am in attack.  Of course I have
not talked morality to you.  You must admit in fairness that I have
spared you that.  Years ago you did a clever, unscrupulous thing; it
turned out a great success.  You owe to it your fortune and position.
And now you have got to pay for it.  Sooner or later we have all to pay
for what we do.  You have to pay now.  Before I leave you to-night, you
have got to promise me to suppress your report, and to speak in the House
in favour of this scheme.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What you ask is impossible.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You must make it possible.  You are going to make it
possible.  Sir Robert, you know what your English newspapers are like.
Suppose that when I leave this house I drive down to some newspaper
office, and give them this scandal and the proofs of it!  Think of their
loathsome joy, of the delight they would have in dragging you down, of
the mud and mire they would plunge you in.  Think of the hypocrite with
his greasy smile penning his leading article, and arranging the foulness
of the public placard.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Stop!  You want me to withdraw the report and to
make a short speech stating that I believe there are possibilities in the
scheme?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Sitting down on the sofa_.]  Those are my terms.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_In a low voice_.]  I will give you any sum of
money you want.
