CYRIL.  There is something in what you say, and there is no doubt that
whatever amusement we may find in reading a purely model novel, we have
rarely any artistic pleasure in re-reading it.  And this is perhaps the
best rough test of what is literature and what is not.  If one cannot
enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use reading it at
all.  But what do you say about the return to Life and Nature?  This is
the panacea that is always being recommended to us.
VIVIAN.  I will read you what I say on that subject.  The passage comes
later on in the article, but I may as well give it to you now:—
‘The popular cry of our time is “Let us return to Life and Nature; they
will recreate Art for us, and send the red blood coursing through her
veins; they will shoe her feet with swiftness and make her hand strong.”
But, alas! we are mistaken in our amiable and well-meaning efforts.
Nature is always behind the age.  And as for Life, she is the solvent
that breaks up Art, the enemy that lays waste her house.’
CYRIL.  What do you mean by saying that Nature is always behind the age?
VIVIAN.  Well, perhaps that is rather cryptic.  What I mean is this.  If
we take Nature to mean natural simple instinct as opposed to
self-conscious culture, the work produced under this influence is always
old-fashioned, antiquated, and out of date.  One touch of Nature may make
the whole world kin, but two touches of Nature will destroy any work of
Art.  If, on the other hand, we regard Nature as the collection of
phenomena external to man, people only discover in her what they bring to
her.  She has no suggestions of her own.  Wordsworth went to the lakes,
but he was never a lake poet.  He found in stones the sermons he had
already hidden there.  He went moralising about the district, but his
good work was produced when he returned, not to Nature but to poetry.
Poetry gave him ‘Laodamia,’ and the fine sonnets, and the great Ode, such
as it is.  Nature gave him ‘Martha Ray’ and ‘Peter Bell,’ and the address
to Mr. Wilkinson’s spade.
CYRIL.  I think that view might be questioned.  I am rather inclined to
believe in ‘the impulse from a vernal wood,’ though of course the
artistic value of such an impulse depends entirely on the kind of
temperament that receives it, so that the return to Nature would come to
mean simply the advance to a great personality.  You would agree with
that, I fancy.  However, proceed with your article.
VIVIAN (_reading_).  ‘Art begins with abstract decoration, with purely
imaginative and pleasurable work dealing with what is unreal and
non-existent.  This is the first stage.  Then Life becomes fascinated
with this new wonder, and asks to be admitted into the charmed circle.
Art takes life as part of her rough material, recreates it, and
refashions it in fresh forms, is absolutely indifferent to fact, invents,
imagines, dreams, and keeps between herself and reality the impenetrable
barrier of beautiful style, of decorative or ideal treatment.  The third
stage is when Life gets the upper hand, and drives Art out into the
wilderness.  That is the true decadence, and it is from this that we are
now suffering.
