    Papa sends his love, in which James, and Reggie, and Maria all unite,
    and, hoping that Uncle Cecil’s gout is better, believe me, dear aunt,
    ever your affectionate niece,
                                                               JANE PERCY.
    _PS._—Do tell me about the bows.  Jennings insists they are the
    fashion.
Lord Arthur looked so serious and unhappy over the letter, that the
Duchess went into fits of laughter.
‘My dear Arthur,’ she cried, ‘I shall never show you a young lady’s
letter again!  But what shall I say about the clock?  I think it is a
capital invention, and I should like to have one myself.’
‘I don’t think much of them,’ said Lord Arthur, with a sad smile, and,
after kissing his mother, he left the room.
When he got upstairs, he flung himself on a sofa, and his eyes filled
with tears.  He had done his best to commit this murder, but on both
occasions he had failed, and through no fault of his own.  He had tried
to do his duty, but it seemed as if Destiny herself had turned traitor.
He was oppressed with the sense of the barrenness of good intentions, of
the futility of trying to be fine.  Perhaps, it would be better to break
off the marriage altogether.  Sybil would suffer, it is true, but
suffering could not really mar a nature so noble as hers.  As for
himself, what did it matter?  There is always some war in which a man can
die, some cause to which a man can give his life, and as life had no
pleasure for him, so death had no terror.  Let Destiny work out his doom.
He would not stir to help her.
At half-past seven he dressed, and went down to the club.  Surbiton was
there with a party of young men, and he was obliged to dine with them.
Their trivial conversation and idle jests did not interest him, and as
soon as coffee was brought he left them, inventing some engagement in
order to get away.  As he was going out of the club, the hall-porter
handed him a letter.  It was from Herr Winckelkopf, asking him to call
down the next evening, and look at an explosive umbrella, that went off
as soon as it was opened.  It was the very latest invention, and had just
arrived from Geneva.  He tore the letter up into fragments.  He had made
up his mind not to try any more experiments.  Then he wandered down to
the Thames Embankment, and sat for hours by the river.  The moon peered
through a mane of tawny clouds, as if it were a lion’s eye, and
innumerable stars spangled the hollow vault, like gold dust powdered on a
purple dome.  Now and then a barge swung out into the turbid stream, and
floated away with the tide, and the railway signals changed from green to
scarlet as the trains ran shrieking across the bridge.  After some time,
twelve o’clock boomed from the tall tower at Westminster, and at each
stroke of the sonorous bell the night seemed to tremble.  Then the
railway lights went out, one solitary lamp left gleaming like a large
ruby on a giant mast, and the roar of the city became fainter.
