‘You are sure to have one before the end of the month then, Lady Clem?’
‘I am afraid so.  But how sympathetic you are to-day, Arthur!  Really,
Sybil has done you a great deal of good.  And now you must run away, for
I am dining with some very dull people, who won’t talk scandal, and I
know that if I don’t get my sleep now I shall never be able to keep awake
during dinner.  Good-bye, Arthur, give my love to Sybil, and thank you so
much for the American medicine.’
‘You won’t forget to take it, Lady Clem, will you?’ said Lord Arthur,
rising from his seat.
‘Of course I won’t, you silly boy.  I think it is most kind of you to
think of me, and I shall write and tell you if I want any more.’
Lord Arthur left the house in high spirits, and with a feeling of immense
relief.
That night he had an interview with Sybil Merton.  He told her how he had
been suddenly placed in a position of terrible difficulty, from which
neither honour nor duty would allow him to recede.  He told her that the
marriage must be put off for the present, as until he had got rid of his
fearful entanglements, he was not a free man.  He implored her to trust
him, and not to have any doubts about the future.  Everything would come
right, but patience was necessary.
The scene took place in the conservatory of Mr. Merton’s house, in Park
Lane, where Lord Arthur had dined as usual.  Sybil had never seemed more
happy, and for a moment Lord Arthur had been tempted to play the coward’s
part, to write to Lady Clementina for the pill, and to let the marriage
go on as if there was no such person as Mr. Podgers in the world.  His
better nature, however, soon asserted itself, and even when Sybil flung
herself weeping into his arms, he did not falter.  The beauty that
stirred his senses had touched his conscience also.  He felt that to
wreck so fair a life for the sake of a few months’ pleasure would be a
wrong thing to do.
He stayed with Sybil till nearly midnight, comforting her and being
comforted in turn, and early the next morning he left for Venice, after
writing a manly, firm letter to Mr. Merton about the necessary
postponement of the marriage.
CHAPTER IV
IN Venice he met his brother, Lord Surbiton, who happened to have come
over from Corfu in his yacht.  The two young men spent a delightful
fortnight together.  In the morning they rode on the Lido, or glided up
and down the green canals in their long black gondola; in the afternoon
they usually entertained visitors on the yacht; and in the evening they
dined at Florian’s, and smoked innumerable cigarettes on the Piazza.  Yet
somehow Lord Arthur was not happy.  Every day he studied the obituary
column in the _Times_, expecting to see a notice of Lady Clementina’s
death, but every day he was disappointed.  He began to be afraid that
some accident had happened to her, and often regretted that he had
prevented her taking the aconitine when she had been so anxious to try
its effect.  Sybil’s letters, too, though full of love, and trust, and
tenderness, were often very sad in their tone, and sometimes he used to
think that he was parted from her for ever.
