People who go in for being consistent have just as many moods as others
have. The only difference is that their moods are rather meaningless.
It is only shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion. A
man who is master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent
a pleasure.
Good women have such a limited view of life, their horizon is so small,
their interests so petty. The fact is they are not modern, and to be
modern is the only thing worth being nowadays.
Discontent is the first step in the progress of a man or a nation.
Men marry because they are tired, women because they are curious. Both
are disappointed.
All men are married women's property. That is the only true definition
of what married women's property really is.
I am not in favour of this modern mania for turning bad people into good
people at a moment's notice. As a man sows so let him reap.
Nothing refines but the intellect.
It is very painful for me to be forced to speak the truth. It is the
first time in my life that I have ever been reduced to such a painful
position, and I am really quite inexperienced in doing anything of the
kind.
The man who regards his past is a man who deserves to have no future to
look forward to.
Just as it is only by contact with the art of foreign nations that the
art of a country gains that individual and separate life that we call
nationality, so, by curious inversion, it is only by intensifying his
own personality that the critic can interpret the personality of others;
and the more strongly this personality enters into the interpretation
the more real the interpretation becomes, the more satisfying, the more
convincing, and the more true.
Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask,
and he will tell you the truth.
All women become like their mothers: that is their tragedy. No man does:
that is his.
Women are a fascinatingly wilful sex. Every woman is a rebel, and
usually in wild revolt against herself.
One should always be in love. That is the reason one should never marry.
No man came across two ideal things. Few come across one.
To become the spectator of one's own life is to escape the suffering of
life.
The state is to make what is useful. The individual is to make what is
beautiful.
A community is infinitely more brutalised by the habitual employment of
punishment than it is by the occasional occurrence of crime.
The systems that fail are those that rely on the permanency of human
nature and not on its growth and development.
Jealousy, which is an extraordinary source of crime in modern life, is
an emotion closely bound up with our conceptions of property, and under
socialism and individualism will die out. It is remarkable that in
communistic tribes jealousy is entirely unknown.
