There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom
one has ceased to love.
Intellectual generalities are always interesting, but generalities in
morals mean absolutely nothing.
To be in society is merely a bore, but to be out of it simply a tragedy.
We live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities.
One should never make one's debut with a scandal. One should reserve
that to give an interest to one's old age.
What man has sought for is, indeed, neither pain nor pleasure, but
simply life. Man has sought to live intensely, fully, perfectly. When he
can do so without exercising restraint on others, or suffering it ever,
and his activities are all pleasurable to him, he will be saner,
healthier, more civilised, more himself. Pleasure is nature's test, her
sign of approval. When man is happy he is in harmony with himself and
his environment.
Society often forgives the criminal, it never forgives the dreamer.
It is so easy for people to have sympathy with suffering. It is so
difficult for them to have sympathy with thought.
Conversation should touch on everything, but should concentrate itself
on nothing.
There is a luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves we feel that
no one else has a right to blame us. It is the confession, not the
priest, that gives us absolution.
There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating--people
who know absolutely everything and people who know absolutely nothing.
The public is wonderfully tolerant; it forgives everything except
genius.
Life makes us pay too high a price for its wares, and we purchase the
meanest of its secrets at a cost that is monstrous and infinite.
This horrid House of Commons quite ruins our husbands for us. I think
the Lower House by far the greatest blow to a happy married life that
there has been since that terrible thing they called the Higher
Education of Women was invented.
Once a man begins to neglect his domestic duties he becomes painfully
effeminate, does he not? And I don't like that. It makes men so very
attractive.
Experience is a question of instinct about life.
What is true about art is true about life.
One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing.
I like men who have a future and women who have a past.
Women, as some witty Frenchman put it, inspire us with the desire to do
masterpieces and always prevent us from carrying them out.
In matters of grave importance style, not sincerity, is the vital thing.
The only way to behave to a woman, is to make love to her if she is
pretty and to someone else if she is plain.
Women give to men the very gold of their lives. Possibly; but they
invariably want it back in such very small change.
Define women as a sex? Sphinxes without secrets.
What do you call a bad man? The sort of man who admires innocence.
