Mr. George Francis Armstrong's Stories of Wicklow, for instance, is most
pleasant reading.  Mr. Armstrong is already well known as the author of
Ugone, King Saul and other dramas, and his latest volume shows that the
power and passion of his early work has not deserted him.  Most modern
Irish poetry is purely political and deals with the wickedness of the
landlords and the Tories; but Mr. Armstrong sings of the picturesqueness
of Erin, not of its politics.  He tells us very charmingly of the magic
of its mists and the melody of its colour, and draws a most captivating
picture of the peasants of the county Wicklow, whom he describes as
   A kindly folk in vale and moor,
      Unvexed with rancours, frank and free
   In mood and manners--rich with poor
      Attuned in happiest amity:
   Where still the cottage door is wide,
      The stranger welcomed at the hearth,
   And pleased the humbler hearts confide
      Still in the friend of gentler birth.
The most ambitious poem in the volume is De Verdun of Darragh.  It is at
once lyrical and dramatic, and though its manner reminds us of Browning
and its method of Maud, still all through it there is a personal and
individual note.  Mr. Armstrong also carefully observes the rules of
decorum, and, as he promises his readers in a preface, keeps quite clear
of 'the seas of sensual art.'  In fact, an elderly maiden lady could read
this volume without a blush, a thrill, or even an emotion.
Dr. Goodchild does not possess Mr. Armstrong's literary touch, but his
Somnia Medici is distinguished by a remarkable quality of forcible and
direct expression.  The poem that opens his volume, Myrrha, or A Dialogue
on Creeds, is quite as readable as a metrical dialogue on creeds could
possibly be; and The Organ Builder is a most romantic story charmingly
told.  Dr. Goodchild seems to be an ardent disciple of Mr. Browning, and
though he may not be able to reproduce the virtues of his master, at
least he can echo his defects very cleverly.  Such a verse as--
   'Tis the subtle essayal
      Of the Jews and Judas,
   Such lying lisp
   Might hail a will-o'-the-wisp,
      A thin somebody--Theudas--
is an excellent example of low comedy in poetry.  One of the best poems
in the book is The Ballad of Three Kingdoms.  Indeed, if the form were
equal to the conception, it would be a delightful work of art; but Dr.
Goodchild, though he may be a master of metres, is not a master of music
yet.  His verse is often harsh and rugged.  On the whole, however, his
volume is clever and interesting.
Mr. Keene has not, we believe, a great reputation in England as yet, but
in India he seems to be well known.  From a collection of criticisms
appended to his volume it appears that the Overland Mail has christened
him the Laureate of Hindostan and that the Allahabad Pioneer once
compared him to Keats.  He is a pleasant rhymer, as rhymers go, and,
though we strongly object to his putting the Song of Solomon into bad
blank verse, still we are quite ready to admire his translations of the
Pervigilium Veneris and of Omar Khayyam.  We wish he would not write
sonnets with fifteen lines.  A fifteen-line sonnet is as bad a
monstrosity as a sonnet in dialogue.  The volume has the merit of being
very small, and contains many stanzas quite suitable for valentines.
