When midnight sounded from the clock-tower he touched a bell, and his
pages entered and disrobed him with much ceremony, pouring rose-water
over his hands, and strewing flowers on his pillow.  A few moments after
that they had left the room, he fell asleep.--_The Young King_.
A CORONATION
And when the Bishop had heard them he knit his brows, and said, 'My son,
I am an old man, and in the winter of my days, and I know that many evil
things are done in the wide world.  The fierce robbers come down from the
mountains, and carry off the little children, and sell them to the Moors.
The lions lie in wait for the caravans, and leap upon the camels.  The
wild boar roots up the corn in the valley, and the foxes gnaw the vines
upon the hill.  The pirates lay waste the sea-coast and burn the ships of
the fishermen, and take their nets from them.  In the salt-marshes live
the lepers; they have houses of wattled reeds, and none may come nigh
them.  The beggars wander through the cities, and eat their food with the
dogs.  Canst thou make these things not to be?  Wilt thou take the leper
for thy bedfellow, and set the beggar at thy board?  Shall the lion do
thy bidding, and the wild boar obey thee?  Is not He who made misery
wiser than thou art?  Wherefore I praise thee not for this that thou hast
done, but I bid thee ride back to the Palace and make thy face glad, and
put on the raiment that beseemeth a king, and with the crown of gold I
will crown thee, and the sceptre of pearl will I place in thy hand.  And
as for thy dreams, think no more of them.  The burden of this world is
too great for one man to bear, and the world's sorrow too heavy for one
heart to suffer.'
'Sayest thou that in this house?' said the young King, and he strode past
the Bishop, and climbed up the steps of the altar, and stood before the
image of Christ.
He stood before the image of Christ, and on his right hand and on his
left were the marvellous vessels of gold, the chalice with the yellow
wine, and the vial with the holy oil.  He knelt before the image of
Christ, and the great candles burned brightly by the jewelled shrine, and
the smoke of the incense curled in thin blue wreaths through the dome.  He
bowed his head in prayer, and the priests in their stiff copes crept away
from the altar.
And suddenly a wild tumult came from the street outside, and in entered
the nobles with drawn swords and nodding plumes, and shields of polished
steel.  'Where is this dreamer of dreams?' they cried.  'Where is this
King who is apparelled like a beggar--this boy who brings shame upon our
state?  Surely we will slay him, for he is unworthy to rule over us.'
