Gwendolen.  [Reproachfully.]  Mamma!
Lady Bracknell.  In the carriage, Gwendolen!  [Gwendolen goes to the
door.  She and Jack blow kisses to each other behind Lady Bracknell's
back.  Lady Bracknell looks vaguely about as if she could not understand
what the noise was.  Finally turns round.]  Gwendolen, the carriage!
Gwendolen.  Yes, mamma.  [Goes out, looking back at Jack.]
Lady Bracknell.  [Sitting down.]  You can take a seat, Mr. Worthing.
[Looks in her pocket for note-book and pencil.]
Jack.  Thank you, Lady Bracknell, I prefer standing.
Lady Bracknell.  [Pencil and note-book in hand.]  I feel bound to tell
you that you are not down on my list of eligible young men, although I
have the same list as the dear Duchess of Bolton has.  We work together,
in fact.  However, I am quite ready to enter your name, should your
answers be what a really affectionate mother requires.  Do you smoke?
Jack.  Well, yes, I must admit I smoke.
Lady Bracknell.  I am glad to hear it.  A man should always have an
occupation of some kind.  There are far too many idle men in London as it
is.  How old are you?
Jack.  Twenty-nine.
Lady Bracknell.  A very good age to be married at.  I have always been of
opinion that a man who desires to get married should know either
everything or nothing.  Which do you know?
Jack.  [After some hesitation.]  I know nothing, Lady Bracknell.
Lady Bracknell.  I am pleased to hear it.  I do not approve of anything
that tampers with natural ignorance.  Ignorance is like a delicate exotic
fruit; touch it and the bloom is gone.  The whole theory of modern
education is radically unsound.  Fortunately in England, at any rate,
education produces no effect whatsoever.  If it did, it would prove a
serious danger to the upper classes, and probably lead to acts of
violence in Grosvenor Square.  What is your income?
Jack.  Between seven and eight thousand a year.
Lady Bracknell.  [Makes a note in her book.]  In land, or in investments?
Jack.  In investments, chiefly.
Lady Bracknell.  That is satisfactory.  What between the duties expected
of one during one's lifetime, and the duties exacted from one after one's
death, land has ceased to be either a profit or a pleasure.  It gives one
position, and prevents one from keeping it up.  That's all that can be
said about land.
Jack.  I have a country house with some land, of course, attached to it,
about fifteen hundred acres, I believe; but I don't depend on that for my
real income.  In fact, as far as I can make out, the poachers are the
only people who make anything out of it.
Lady Bracknell.  A country house!  How many bedrooms?  Well, that point
can be cleared up afterwards.  You have a town house, I hope?  A girl
with a simple, unspoiled nature, like Gwendolen, could hardly be expected
to reside in the country.
Jack.  Well, I own a house in Belgrave Square, but it is let by the year
to Lady Bloxham.  Of course, I can get it back whenever I like, at six
months' notice.
