Lady Bracknell.  Lady Bloxham?  I don't know her.
Jack.  Oh, she goes about very little.  She is a lady considerably
advanced in years.
Lady Bracknell.  Ah, nowadays that is no guarantee of respectability of
character.  What number in Belgrave Square?
Jack.  149.
Lady Bracknell.  [Shaking her head.]  The unfashionable side.  I thought
there was something.  However, that could easily be altered.
Jack.  Do you mean the fashion, or the side?
Lady Bracknell.  [Sternly.]  Both, if necessary, I presume.  What are
your politics?
Jack.  Well, I am afraid I really have none.  I am a Liberal Unionist.
Lady Bracknell.  Oh, they count as Tories.  They dine with us.  Or come
in the evening, at any rate.  Now to minor matters.  Are your parents
living?
Jack.  I have lost both my parents.
Lady Bracknell.  To lose one parent, Mr. Worthing, may be regarded as a
misfortune; to lose both looks like carelessness.  Who was your father?
He was evidently a man of some wealth.  Was he born in what the Radical
papers call the purple of commerce, or did he rise from the ranks of the
aristocracy?
Jack.  I am afraid I really don't know.  The fact is, Lady Bracknell, I
said I had lost my parents.  It would be nearer the truth to say that my
parents seem to have lost me . . . I don't actually know who I am by
birth.  I was . . . well, I was found.
Lady Bracknell.  Found!
Jack.  The late Mr. Thomas Cardew, an old gentleman of a very charitable
and kindly disposition, found me, and gave me the name of Worthing,
because he happened to have a first-class ticket for Worthing in his
pocket at the time.  Worthing is a place in Sussex.  It is a seaside
resort.
Lady Bracknell.  Where did the charitable gentleman who had a first-class
ticket for this seaside resort find you?
Jack.  [Gravely.]  In a hand-bag.
Lady Bracknell.  A hand-bag?
Jack.  [Very seriously.]  Yes, Lady Bracknell.  I was in a hand-bag--a
somewhat large, black leather hand-bag, with handles to it--an ordinary
hand-bag in fact.
Lady Bracknell.  In what locality did this Mr. James, or Thomas, Cardew
come across this ordinary hand-bag?
Jack.  In the cloak-room at Victoria Station.  It was given to him in
mistake for his own.
Lady Bracknell.  The cloak-room at Victoria Station?
Jack.  Yes.  The Brighton line.
Lady Bracknell.  The line is immaterial.  Mr. Worthing, I confess I feel
somewhat bewildered by what you have just told me.  To be born, or at any
rate bred, in a hand-bag, whether it had handles or not, seems to me to
display a contempt for the ordinary decencies of family life that reminds
one of the worst excesses of the French Revolution.  And I presume you
know what that unfortunate movement led to?  As for the particular
locality in which the hand-bag was found, a cloak-room at a railway
station might serve to conceal a social indiscretion--has probably,
indeed, been used for that purpose before now--but it could hardly be
regarded as an assured basis for a recognised position in good society.
