                                           [_Exit_ DUKE _with his Court_.]
DUCHESS
   The stars have fought against me, that is all,
   And thus to-night when my Lord lieth asleep,
   Will I fall upon my dagger, and so cease.
   My heart is such a stone nothing can reach it
   Except the dagger’s edge: let it go there,
   To find what name it carries: ay! to-night
   Death will divorce the Duke; and yet to-night
   He may die also, he is very old.
   Why should he not die?  Yesterday his hand
   Shook with a palsy: men have died from palsy,
   And why not he?  Are there not fevers also,
   Agues and chills, and other maladies
   Most incident to old age?
   No, no, he will not die, he is too sinful;
   Honest men die before their proper time.
   Good men will die: men by whose side the Duke
   In all the sick pollution of his life
   Seems like a leper: women and children die,
   But the Duke will not die, he is too sinful.
   Oh, can it be
   There is some immortality in sin,
   Which virtue has not?  And does the wicked man
   Draw life from what to other men were death,
   Like poisonous plants that on corruption live?
   No, no, I think God would not suffer that:
   Yet the Duke will not die: he is too sinful.
   But I will die alone, and on this night
   Grim Death shall be my bridegroom, and the tomb
   My secret house of pleasure: well, what of that?
   The world’s a graveyard, and we each, like coffins,
   Within us bear a skeleton.
[_Enter_ LORD MORANZONE _all in black_; _he passes across the back of the
                     stage looking anxiously about_.]
MORANZONE
   Where is Guido?
   I cannot find him anywhere.
DUCHESS [_catches sight of him_]
   O God!
   ’Twas thou who took my love away from me.
MORANZONE [_with a look of joy_]
   What, has he left you?
DUCHESS
   Nay, you know he has.
   Oh, give him back to me, give him back, I say,
   Or I will tear your body limb from limb,
   And to the common gibbet nail your head
   Until the carrion crows have stripped it bare.
   Better you had crossed a hungry lioness
   Before you came between me and my love.
                                                     [_With more pathos_.]
   Nay, give him back, you know not how I love him.
   Here by this chair he knelt a half hour since;
   ’Twas there he stood, and there he looked at me;
   This is the hand he kissed, and these the ears
   Into whose open portals he did pour
   A tale of love so musical that all
   The birds stopped singing!  Oh, give him back to me.
MORANZONE
   He does not love you, Madam.
DUCHESS
   May the plague
   Wither the tongue that says so!  Give him back.
MORANZONE
   Madam, I tell you you will never see him,
   Neither to-night, nor any other night.
DUCHESS
   What is your name?
MORANZONE
   My name?  Revenge!
                                                                 [_Exit_.]
DUCHESS
   Revenge!
   I think I never harmed a little child.
   What should Revenge do coming to my door?
   It matters not, for Death is there already,
   Waiting with his dim torch to light my way.
   ’Tis true men hate thee, Death, and yet I think
   Thou wilt be kinder to me than my lover,
   And so dispatch the messengers at once,
   Harry the lazy steeds of lingering day,
   And let the night, thy sister, come instead,
   And drape the world in mourning; let the owl,
   Who is thy minister, scream from his tower
   And wake the toad with hooting, and the bat,
   That is the slave of dim Persephone,
   Wheel through the sombre air on wandering wing!
   Tear up the shrieking mandrakes from the earth
   And bid them make us music, and tell the mole
   To dig deep down thy cold and narrow bed,
   For I shall lie within thine arms to-night.
