He took a lantern and examined the ground for a matter of twenty yards;
then said, "Come on; it's all right," and gave up the lantern. In and
out among the sage-bushes he marched, a quarter of a mile, bearing
gradually to the right; then took a new direction and made another
great semicircle; then changed again and moved due west nearly half a
mile--and stopped.
"She gave it up, here, poor little chap. Hold the lantern. You can see
where she sat."
But this was in a slick alkali flat which was surfaced like steel, and
no person in the party was quite hardy enough to claim an eyesight that
could detect the track of a cushion on a veneer like that. The bereaved
mother fell upon her knees and kissed the spot, lamenting.
"But where is she, then?" some one said. "She didn't stay here. We can
see that much, anyway."
Stillman moved about in a circle around the place, with the lantern,
pretending to hunt for tracks.
"Well!" he said presently, in an annoyed tone, "I don't understand it."
He examined again. "No use. She was here--that's certain; she never
walked away from here--and that's certain. It's a puzzle; I can't make
it out."
The mother lost heart then.
"Oh, my God! oh, blessed Virgin! some flying beast has got her. I'll
never see her again!"
"Ah, don't give up," said Archy. "We'll find her--don't give up."
"God bless you for the words, Archy Stillman!" and she seized his hand
and kissed it fervently.
Peterson, the new-comer, whispered satirically in Ferguson's ear:
"Wonderful performance to find this place, wasn't it? Hardly worth
while to come so far, though; any other supposititious place would have
answered just as well--hey?"
Ferguson was not pleased with the innuendo. He said, with some warmth,
"Do you mean to insinuate that the child hasn't been here? I tell you
the child has been here! Now if you want to get yourself into as tidy a
little fuss as--"
"All right!" sang out Stillman. "Come, everybody, and look at this! It
was right under our noses all the time, and we didn't see it."
There was a general plunge for the ground at the place where the child
was alleged to have rested, and many eyes tried hard and hopefully to
see the thing that Archy's finger was resting upon. There was a pause,
then a several-barrelled sigh of disappointment. Pat Riley and Ham
Sandwich said, in the one breath,
"What is it, Archy? There's nothing here."
"Nothing? Do you call that nothing?" and he swiftly traced upon the
ground a form with his finger. "There--don't you recognize it now? It's
Injun Billy's track. He's got the child."
"God be praised!" from the mother.
"Take away the lantern. I've got the direction. Follow!"
He started on a run, racing in and out among the sage-bushes a matter
of three hundred yards, and disappeared over a sand-wave; the others
struggled after him, caught him up, and found him waiting. Ten steps
away was a little wickieup, a dim and formless shelter of rags and old
horse-blankets, a dull light showing through its chinks.
