Faith in the doctor. Perhaps that is the entire thing. It seems to look
like it. In old times the King cured the king's evil by the touch of the
royal hand. He frequently made extraordinary cures. Could his footman
have done it? No--not in his own clothes. Disguised as the King, could
he have done it? I think we may not doubt it. I think we may feel sure
that it was not the King's touch that made the cure in any instance,
but the patient's faith in the efficacy of a King's touch. Genuine and
remarkable cures have been achieved through contact with the relics of a
saint. Is it not likely that any other bones would have done as well if
the substitution had been concealed from the patient? When I was a boy a
farmer's wife who lived five miles from our village had great fame as
a faith-doctor--that was what she called herself. Sufferers came to
her from all around, and she laid her hand upon them and said, "Have
faith--it is all that is necessary," and they went away well of their
ailments. She was not a religious woman, and pretended to no occult
powers. She said that the patient's faith in her did the work. Several
times I saw her make immediate cures of severe toothaches. My mother was
the patient. In Austria there is a peasant who drives a great trade in
this sort of industry, and has both the high and the low for patients.
He gets into prison every now and then for practising without a diploma,
but his business is as brisk as ever when he gets out, for his work
is unquestionably successful and keeps his reputation high. In Bavaria
there is a man who performed so many great cures that he had to retire
from his profession of stage-carpentering in order to meet the demand
of his constantly increasing body of customers. He goes on from year
to year doing his miracles, and has become very rich. He pretends to no
religious helps, no supernatural aids, but thinks there is something in
his make-up which inspires the confidence of his patients, and that it
is this confidence which does the work, and not some mysterious power
issuing from himself.
Within the last quarter of a century, in America, several sects of
curers have appeared under various names and have done notable things in
the way of healing ailments without the use of medicines. There are the
Mind Cure the Faith Cure, the Prayer Cure, the Mental Science Cure, and
the Christian-Science Cure; and apparently they all do their miracles
with the same old, powerful instrument--the patient's imagination.
Differing names, but no difference in the process. But they do not give
that instrument the credit; each sect claims that its way differs from
the ways of the others.
They all achieve some cures, there is no question about it; and the
Faith Cure and the Prayer Cure probably do no harm when they do no good,
since they do not forbid the patient to help out the cure with medicines
if he wants to; but the others bar medicines, and claim ability to cure
every conceivable human ailment through the application of their mental
forces alone. There would seem to be an element of danger here. It has
the look of claiming too much, I think. Public confidence would probably
be increased if less were claimed.
