There is a page about another good child--little Gordon. Little Gordon
"came into the world without the assistance of surgery or anaesthetics."
He was a "demonstration." A painless one; therefore, his coming evoked
"joy and thankfulness to God and the Discoverer of Christian Science."
It is a noticeable feature of this literature--the so frequent linking
together of the Two Beings in an equal bond; also of Their Two Bibles.
When little Gordon was two years old, "he was playing horse on the bed,
where I had left my 'little book.' I noticed him stop in his play, take
the book carefully in his little hands, kiss it softly, then look about
for the highest place of safety his arms could reach, and put it there."
This pious act filled the mother "with such a train of thought as I had
never experienced before. I thought of the sweet mother of long ago
who kept things in her heart," etc. It is a bold comparison; however,
unconscious profanations are about as common in the mouths of the lay
member ship of the new Church as are frank and open ones in the mouths
of its consecrated chiefs.
Some days later, the family library--Christian-Science books--was lying
in a deep-seated window. This was another chance for the holy child to
show off. He left his play and went there and pushed all the books to
one side, except the Annex "It he took in both hands, slowly raised
it to his lips, then removed it carefully, and seated himself in the
window." It had seemed to the mother too wonderful to be true, that
first time; but now she was convinced that "neither imagination nor
accident had anything to do with it." Later, little Gordon let the
author of his being see him do it. After that he did it frequently;
probably every time anybody was looking. I would rather have that child
than a chromo. If this tale has any object, it is to intimate that the
inspired book was supernaturally able to convey a sense of its sacred
and awful character to this innocent little creature, without
the intervention of outside aids. The magazine is not edited with
high-priced discretion. The editor has a "claim," and he ought to get it
treated.
Among other witnesses there is one who had a "jumping toothache,"
which several times tempted her to "believe that there was sensation in
matter, but each time it was overcome by the power of Truth." She would
not allow the dentist to use cocaine, but sat there and let him
punch and drill and split and crush the tooth, and tear and slash its
ulcerations, and pull out the nerve, and dig out fragments of bone; and
she wouldn't once confess that it hurt. And to this day she thinks it
didn't, and I have not a doubt that she is nine-tenths right, and that
her Christian Science faith did her better service than she could have
gotten out of cocaine.
