In a moment Billson was on his feet and shouting:
"It's a lie! It's an infamous lie!"
The Chair. "Be seated, sir! Mr. Wilson has the floor."
Billson's friends pulled him into his seat and quieted him, and Wilson
went on:
"Those are the simple facts. My note was now lying in a different place
on the table from where I had left it. I noticed that, but attached
no importance to it, thinking a draught had blown it there. That Mr.
Billson would read a private paper was a thing which could not occur to
me; he was an honourable man, and he would be above that. If you will
allow me to say it, I think his extra word 'VERY' stands explained: it
is attributable to a defect of memory. I was the only man in the world
who could furnish here any detail of the test-mark--by HONOURABLE means.
I have finished."
There is nothing in the world like a persuasive speech to fuddle the
mental apparatus and upset the convictions and debauch the emotions of
an audience not practised in the tricks and delusions of oratory. Wilson
sat down victorious. The house submerged him in tides of approving
applause; friends swarmed to him and shook him by the hand and
congratulated him, and Billson was shouted down and not allowed to say a
word. The Chair hammered and hammered with its gavel, and kept shouting:
"But let us proceed, gentlemen, let us proceed!"
At last there was a measurable degree of quiet, and the hatter said:
"But what is there to proceed with, sir, but to deliver the money?"
Voices. "That's it! That's it! Come forward, Wilson!"
The Hatter. "I move three cheers for Mr. Wilson, Symbol of the special
virtue which--"
The cheers burst forth before he could finish; and in the midst
of them--and in the midst of the clamour of the gavel also--some
enthusiasts mounted Wilson on a big friend's shoulder and were going to
fetch him in triumph to the platform. The Chair's voice now rose above
the noise:
"Order! To your places! You forget that there is still a document to
be read." When quiet had been restored he took up the document, and was
going to read it, but laid it down again saying "I forgot; this is not
to be read until all written communications received by me have
first been read." He took an envelope out of his pocket, removed its
enclosure, glanced at it--seemed astonished--held it out and gazed at
it--stared at it.
Twenty or thirty voices cried out:
"What is it? Read it! read it!"
And he did--slowly, and wondering:
"'The remark which I made to the stranger--(Voices. "Hello! how's
this?")--was this: "You are far from being a bad man. (Voices. "Great
Scott!") Go, and reform."' (Voice. "Oh, saw my leg off!") Signed by Mr.
Pinkerton the banker."
The pandemonium of delight which turned itself loose now was of a sort
to make the judicious weep. Those whose withers were unwrung laughed
till the tears ran down; the reporters, in throes of laughter, set down
disordered pot-hooks which would never in the world be decipherable; and
a sleeping dog jumped up scared out of its wits, and barked itself crazy
at the turmoil. All manner of cries were scattered through the din:
"We're getting rich--TWO Symbols of Incorruptibility!--without counting
Billson!" "THREE!--count Shadbelly in--we can't have too many!" "All
right--Billson's elected!" "Alas, poor Wilson! victim of TWO thieves!"
