Nikolaus said: “Father Peter, with the exception of the astrologer you
haven’t a real enemy in the village--nor Marget, either. And not even a
half-enemy that’s rich enough to chance eleven hundred ducats to do you
a mean turn. I’ll ask you if that’s so or not?”
He couldn’t get around that argument, and it cheered him up. “But it
isn’t mine, you see--it isn’t mine, in any case.”
He said it in a wistful way, like a person that wouldn’t be sorry, but
glad, if anybody would contradict him.
“It is yours, Father Peter, and we are witness to it. Aren’t we, boys?”
“Yes, we are--and we’ll stand by it, too.”
“Bless your hearts, you do almost persuade me; you do, indeed. If I
had only a hundred-odd ducats of it! The house is mortgaged for it, and
we’ve no home for our heads if we don’t pay to-morrow. And that four
ducats is all we’ve got in the--”
“It’s yours, every bit of it, and you’ve got to take it--we are bail
that it’s all right. Aren’t we, Theodor? Aren’t we, Seppi?”
We two said yes, and Nikolaus stuffed the money back into the shabby
old wallet and made the owner take it. So he said he would use two
hundred of it, for his house was good enough security for that, and
would put the rest at interest till the rightful owner came for it;
and on our side we must sign a paper showing how he got the money--a
paper to show to the villagers as proof that he had not got out of his
troubles dishonestly.
CHAPTER IV
It made immense talk next day, when Father Peter paid Solomon Isaacs in
gold and left the rest of the money with him at interest. Also, there
was a pleasant change; many people called at the house to congratulate
him, and a number of cool old friends became kind and friendly again;
and, to top all, Marget was invited to a party.
And there was no mystery; Father Peter told the whole circumstance just
as it happened, and said he could not account for it, only it was the
plain hand of Providence, so far as he could see.
One or two shook their heads and said privately it looked more like the
hand of Satan; and really that seemed a surprisingly good guess for
ignorant people like that. Some came slyly buzzing around and tried
to coax us boys to come out and “tell the truth”; and promised they
wouldn’t ever tell, but only wanted to know for their own satisfaction,
because the whole thing was so curious. They even wanted to buy the
secret, and pay money for it; and if we could have invented something
that would answer--but we couldn’t; we hadn’t the ingenuity, so we had
to let the chance go by, and it was a pity.
We carried that secret around without any trouble, but the other one,
the big one, the splendid one, burned the very vitals of us, it was
so hot to get out and we so hot to let it out and astonish people
with it. But we had to keep it in; in fact, it kept itself in. Satan
said it would, and it did. We went off every day and got to ourselves
in the woods so that we could talk about Satan, and really that was
the only subject we thought of or cared anything about; and day and
night we watched for him and hoped he would come, and we got more
and more impatient all the time. We hadn’t any interest in the other
boys any more, and wouldn’t take part in their games and enterprises.
They seemed so tame, after Satan; and their doings so trifling and
commonplace after his adventures in antiquity and the constellations,
and his miracles and meltings and explosions, and all that.
