“It is as I told you--I am only a spirit.”
“Yes, one perceives it now,” said Nikolaus, “but we are not spirits. It
is plain he did not see you, but were we invisible, too? He looked at
us, but he didn’t seem to see us.”
“No, none of us was visible to him, for I wished it so.”
It seemed almost too good to be true, that we were actually seeing
these romantic and wonderful things, and that it was not a dream. And
there he sat, looking just like anybody--so natural and simple and
charming, and chatting along again the same as ever, and--well, words
cannot make you understand what we felt. It was an ecstasy; and an
ecstasy is a thing that will not go into words; it feels like music,
and one cannot tell about music so that another person can get the
feeling of it. He was back in the old ages once more now, and making
them live before us. He had seen so much, so much! It was just a
wonder to look at him and try to think how it must seem to have such
experience behind one.
But it made you seem sorrowfully trivial, and the creature of a day,
and such a short and paltry day, too. And he didn’t say anything to
raise up your drooping pride--no, not a word. He always spoke of men
in the same old indifferent way--just as one speaks of bricks and
manure-piles and such things; you could see that they were of no
consequence to him, one way or the other. He didn’t mean to hurt us,
you could see that; just as we don’t mean to insult a brick when we
disparage it; a brick’s emotions are nothing to us; it never occurs to
us to think whether it has any or not.
Once when he was bunching the most illustrious kings and conquerors
and poets and prophets and pirates and beggars together--just a
brick-pile--I was shamed into putting in a word for man, and asked
him why he made so much difference between men and himself. He had to
struggle with that a moment; he didn’t seem to understand how I could
ask such a strange question. Then he said:
“The difference between man and me? The difference between a mortal and
an immortal? between a cloud and a spirit?” He picked up a wood-louse
that was creeping along a piece of bark: “What is the difference
between Casar and this?”
I said, “One cannot compare things which by their nature and by the
interval between them are not comparable.”
“You have answered your own question,” he said. “I will expand it.
Man is made of dirt--I saw him made. I am not made of dirt. Man is
a museum of diseases, a home of impurities; he comes to-day and is
gone to-morrow; he begins as dirt and departs as stench; I am of the
aristocracy of the Imperishables. And man has the _Moral Sense_. You
understand? He has the _Moral Sense_. That would seem to be difference
enough between us, all by itself.”
