“A little while, Father.”
“Then it is since I came by, and maybe you can help me. Did you come up
by the path?”
“Yes, Father.”
“That is good. I came the same way. I have lost my wallet. There wasn’t
much in it, but a very little is much to me, for it was all I had. I
suppose you haven’t seen anything of it?”
“No, Father, but we will help you hunt.”
“It is what I was going to ask you. Why, here it is!”
We hadn’t noticed it; yet there it lay, right where Satan stood when he
began to melt--if he did melt and it wasn’t a delusion. Father Peter
picked it up and looked very much surprised.
“It is mine,” he said, “but not the contents. This is fat; mine was
flat; mine was light; this is heavy.” He opened it; it was stuffed as
full as it could hold with gold coins. He let us gaze our fill; and of
course we did gaze, for we had never seen so much money at one time
before. All our mouths came open to say “Satan did it!” but nothing
came out. There it was, you see--we couldn’t tell what Satan didn’t
want told; he had said so himself.
“Boys, did you do this?”
It made us laugh. And it made him laugh, too, as soon as he thought
what a foolish question it was.
“Who has been here?”
Our mouths came open to answer, but stood so for a moment, because we
couldn’t say “Nobody,” for it wouldn’t be true, and the right word
didn’t seem to come; then I thought of the right one, and said it:
“Not a human being.”
“That is so,” said the others, and let their mouths go shut.
“It is not so,” said Father Peter, and looked at us very severely.
“I came by here a while ago, and there was no one here, but that is
nothing; some one has been here since. I don’t mean to say that the
person didn’t pass here before you came, and I don’t mean to say you
saw him, but some one did pass, that I know. On your honor--you saw no
one?”
“Not a human being.”
“That is sufficient; I know you are telling me the truth.”
He began to count the money on the path, we on our knees eagerly
helping to stack it in little piles.
“It’s eleven hundred ducats odd!” he said. “Oh dear! if it were only
mine--and I need it so!” and his voice broke and his lips quivered.
“It is yours, sir!” we all cried out at once, “every heller!”
“No--it isn’t mine. Only four ducats are mine; the rest...!” He fell to
dreaming, poor old soul, and caressing some of the coins in his hands,
and forgot where he was, sitting there on his heels with his old gray
head bare; it was pitiful to see. “No,” he said, waking up, “it isn’t
mine. I can’t account for it. I think some enemy ... it must be a trap.”
