Tears stood in the eyes of both the old ladies and the widow said,
softly:
"Betsy Hale, we have learned something, you and me."
The conversation now drifted wide, but by and by floated back once more
to that admired detail, the rigid and beautiful impartiality with which
the possession of power had been distributed, between the twins. Aunt
Betsy saw in it a far finer justice than human law exhibits in related
cases. She said:
"In my opinion it ain't right noW, and never has been right, the way a
twin born a quarter of a minute sooner than the other one gets all the
land and grandeurs and nobilities in the old countries and his brother
has to go bare and be a nobody. Which of you was born first?"
Angelo's head was resting against Luigi's; weariness had overcome him,
and for the past five minutes he had been peacefully sleeping. The old
ladies had dropped their voices to a lulling drone, to help him to steal
the rest his brother wouldn't take him up-stairs to get. Luigi listened
a moment to Angelo's regular breathing, then said in a voice barely
audible:
"We were both born at the same time, but I am six months older than he
is."
"For the land's sake!"
"'Sh! don't wake him up; he wouldn't like my telling this. It has always
been kept secret till now."
"But how in the world can it be? If you were both born at the same time,
how can one of you be older than the other?"
"It is very simple, and I assure you it is true. I was born with a full
crop of hair, he was as bald as an egg for six months. I could walk six
months before he could make a step. I finished teething six months ahead
of him. I began to take solids six months before he left the breast.
I began to talk six months before he could say a word. Last, and
absolutely unassailable proof, the sutures in my skull closed six months
ahead of his. Always just that six months' difference to a day. Was that
accident? Nobody is going to claim that, I'm sure. It was ordained--it
was law--it had its meaning, and we know what that meaning was. Now what
does this overwhelming body of evidence establish? It establishes
just one thing, and that thing it establishes beyond any peradventure
whatever. Friends, we would not have it known for the world, and I must
beg you to keep it strictly to yourselves, but the truth is, we are no
more twins than you are."
The two old ladies were stunned, paralyzed--petrified, one may almost
say--and could only sit and gaze vacantly at each other for some
moments; then Aunt Betsy Hale said impressively:
"There's no getting around proof like that. I do believe it's the most
amazing thing I ever heard of." She sat silent a moment or two and
breathing hard with excitement, then she looked up and surveyed the
strangers steadfastly a little while, and added: "Well, it does beat me,
but I would have took you for twins anywhere."
