"Now we are getting at the kernel of the thing," observed the judge,
with grave and earnest satisfaction. "It looks as if the Count Luigi was
in possession of the battery at the time of the assault."
Nothing further was elicited from Mr. Buckstone on direct examination.
Mr. Wilson took the witness.
"Mr. Buckstone, about what time was it that that conversation took
place?"
"Toward nine yesterday evening, sir."
"Did you then proceed directly to the hall?"
"Yes, sir."
"How long did it take you to go there?"
"Well, we walked; and as it was from the extreme edge of the town, and
there was no hurry, I judge it took us about twenty minutes, maybe a
trifle more."
"About what hour was the kick delivered?"
"About thirteen minutes and a half to ten."
"Admirable! You are a pattern witness, Mr. Buckstone. How did you happen
to look at your watch at that particular moment?"
"I always do it when I see an assault. It's likely I shall be called as
a witness, and it's a good point to have."
"It would be well if others were as thoughtful. Was anything said,
between the conversation at my house and the assault, upon the detail
which we are now examining into?"
"No, sir."
"If power over the mutual legs was in the possession of one brother at
nine, and passed into the possession of the other one during the next
thirty or forty minutes, do you think you could have detected the
change?"
"By no means!"
"That is all, Mr. Buckstone."
Mrs. Patsy Cooper was called. The crowd made way for her, and she came
smiling and bowing through the narrow human lane, with Betsy Hale,
as escort and support, smiling and bowing in her wake, the audience
breaking into welcoming cheers as the old favorites filed along. The
judge did not check this kindly demonstration of homage and affection,
but let it run its course unrebuked.
The old ladies stopped and shook hands with the twins with effusion,
then gave the judge a friendly nod, and bustled into the seats provided
for them. They immediately began to deliver a volley of eager questions
at the friends around them: "What is this thing for?" "What is that
thing for?" "Who is that young man that's writing at the desk? Why, I
declare, it's Jack Bunce! I thought he was sick." "Which is the jury?
Why, is that the jury? Billy Price and Job Turner, and Jack Lounsbury,
and--well, I never!" "Now who would ever 'a' thought--"
But they were gently called to order at this point, and asked not to
talk in court. Their tongues fell silent, but the radiant interest in
their faces remained, and their gratitude for the blessing of a new
sensation and a novel experience still beamed undimmed from their eyes.
Aunt Patsy stood up and took the oath, and Mr. Allen explained the point
in issue, and asked her to go on now, in her own way, and throw as much
light upon it as she could. She toyed with her reticule a moment or two,
as if considering where to begin, then she said:
