     [It was a long and lively drive.  Angelo was a Methodist, Luigi was
     a Free-thinker.  The judge was very proud of his Freethinkers'
     Society, which was flourishing along in a most prosperous way and
     already had two members--himself and the obscure and neglected
     Pudd'nhead Wilson.  It was to meet that evening, and he invited
     Luigi to join; a thing which Luigi was glad to do, partly because it
     would please himself, and partly because it would gravel Angelo.]
They had now arrived at the widow's gate, and the excursion was ended.
The twins politely expressed their obligations for the pleasant outing
which had been afforded them; to which the judge bowed his thanks, and
then said he would now go and arrange for the Free-thinkers' meeting,
and would call for Count Luigi in the evening.
"For you also, dear sir," he added hastily, turning to Angelo and
bowing. "In addressing myself particularly to your brother, I was not
meaning to leave you out. It was an unintentional rudeness, I assure
you, and due wholly to accident--accident and preoccupation. I beg you
to forgive me."
His quick eye had seen the sensitive blood mount into Angelo's face,
betraying the wound that had been inflicted. The sting of the slight had
gone deep, but the apology was so prompt, and so evidently sincere, that
the hurt was almost immediately healed, and a forgiving smile testified
to the kindly judge that all was well again.
Concealed behind Angelo's modest and unassuming exterior, and
unsuspected by any but his intimates, was a lofty pride, a pride of
almost abnormal proportions, indeed, and this rendered him ever the prey
of slights; and although they were almost always imaginary ones, they
hurt none the less on that account. By ill fortune judge Driscoll
had happened to touch his sorest point, i.e., his conviction that his
brother's presence was welcomer everywhere than his own; that he was
often invited, out of mere courtesy, where only his brother was
wanted, and that in a majority of cases he would not be included in an
invitation if he could be left out without offense. A sensitive nature
like this is necessarily subject to moods; moods which traverse the
whole gamut of feeling; moods which know all the climes of emotion, from
the sunny heights of joy to the black abysses of despair. At times, in
his seasons of deepest depressions, Angelo almost wished that he and
his brother might become segregated from each other and be separate
individuals, like other men. But of course as soon as his mind cleared
and these diseased imaginings passed away, he shuddered at the repulsive
thought, and earnestly prayed that it might visit him no more. To
be separate, and as other men are! How awkward it would seem; how
unendurable. What would he do with his hands, his arms? How would his
legs feel? How odd, and strange, and grotesque every action, attitude,
movement, gesture would be. To sleep by himself, eat by himself, walk by
himself--how lonely, how unspeakably lonely! No, no, any fate but that.
In every way and from every point, the idea was revolting.
