Y.M. You may answer your question yourself.
O.M. That list of sects is not a record of _studies_, searchings,
seekings after light; it mainly (and sarcastically) indicates what
_association _can do. If you know a man's nationality you can come
within a split hair of guessing the complexion of his religion:
English--Protestant; American--ditto; Spaniard, Frenchman, Irishman,
Italian, South American--Roman Catholic; Russian--Greek Catholic;
Turk--Mohammedan; and so on. And when you know the man's religious
complexion, you know what sort of religious books he reads when he wants
some more light, and what sort of books he avoids, lest by accident he
get more light than he wants. In America if you know which party-collar
a voter wears, you know what his associations are, and how he came by
his politics, and which breed of newspaper he reads to get light, and
which breed he diligently avoids, and which breed of mass-meetings he
attends in order to broaden his political knowledge, and which breed
of mass-meetings he doesn't attend, except to refute its doctrines with
brickbats. We are always hearing of people who are around _seeking after
truth_. I have never seen a (permanent) specimen. I think he had never
lived. But I have seen several entirely sincere people who _thought
_they were (permanent) Seekers after Truth. They sought diligently,
persistently, carefully, cautiously, profoundly, with perfect honesty
and nicely adjusted judgment--until they believed that without doubt or
question they had found the Truth. _That was the end of the search. _The
man spent the rest of his life hunting up shingles wherewith to protect
his Truth from the weather. If he was seeking after political Truth he
found it in one or another of the hundred political gospels which govern
men in the earth; if he was seeking after the Only True Religion he
found it in one or another of the three thousand that are on the market.
In any case, when he found the Truth _he sought no further; _but from
that day forth, with his soldering-iron in one hand and his bludgeon in
the other he tinkered its leaks and reasoned with objectors. There have
been innumerable Temporary Seekers of Truth--have you ever heard of a
permanent one? In the very nature of man such a person is impossible.
However, to drop back to the text--training: all training is one form
or another of _outside influence, _and _association _is the largest part
of it. A man is never anything but what his outside influences have made
him. They train him downward or they train him upward--but they _train
_him; they are at work upon him all the time.
Y.M. Then if he happen by the accidents of life to be evilly placed
there is no help for him, according to your notions--he must train
downward.
O.M. No help for him? No help for this chameleon? It is a mistake. It is
in his chameleonship that his greatest good fortune lies. He has only
to change his habitat--his _associations_. But the impulse to do it
must come from the _outside _--he cannot originate it himself, with that
purpose in view. Sometimes a very small and accidental thing can furnish
him the initiatory impulse and start him on a new road, with a new idea.
The chance remark of a sweetheart, "I hear that you are a coward," may
water a seed that shall sprout and bloom and flourish, and ended in
producing a surprising fruitage--in the fields of war. The history of
man is full of such accidents. The accident of a broken leg brought a
profane and ribald soldier under religious influences and furnished him
a new ideal. From that accident sprang the Order of the Jesuits, and it
has been shaking thrones, changing policies, and doing other tremendous
work for two hundred years--and will go on. The chance reading of a book
or of a paragraph in a newspaper can start a man on a new track and
make him renounce his old associations and seek new ones that are _in
sympathy with his new ideal_: and the result, for that man, can be an
entire change of his way of life.
