Y.M. Explain.
O.M. You keep back your scoldings now, to please _yourself _by pleasing
your _mother_; presently the mere triumphing over your temper
will delight your vanity and confer a more delicious pleasure and
satisfaction upon you than even the approbation of your _mother _confers
upon you now. You will then labor for yourself directly and at _first
hand, _not by the roundabout way through your mother. It simplifies the
matter, and it also strengthens the impulse.
Y.M. Ah, dear! But I sha'n't ever reach the point where I will spare the
girl for _her _sake _primarily_, not mine?
O.M. Why--yes. In heaven.
Y.M. (_After a reflective pause) _Temperament. Well, I see one must
allow for temperament. It is a large factor, sure enough. My mother is
thoughtful, and not hot-tempered. When I was dressed I went to her room;
she was not there; I called, she answered from the bathroom. I heard the
water running. I inquired. She answered, without temper, that Jane had
forgotten her bath, and she was preparing it herself. I offered to
ring, but she said, "No, don't do that; it would only distress her to
be confronted with her lapse, and would be a rebuke; she doesn't deserve
that--she is not to blame for the tricks her memory serves her." I
say--has my mother an Interior Master?--and where was he?
O.M. He was there. There, and looking out for his own peace and pleasure
and contentment. The girl's distress would have pained _your mother.
_Otherwise the girl would have been rung up, distress and all. I know
women who would have gotten a No. 1 _pleasure _out of ringing Jane
up--and so they would infallibly have pushed the button and obeyed the
law of their make and training, which are the servants of their Interior
Masters. It is quite likely that a part of your mother's forbearance
came from training. The _good _kind of training--whose best and highest
function is to see to it that every time it confers a satisfaction upon
its pupil a benefit shall fall at second hand upon others.
Y.M. If you were going to condense into an admonition your plan for the
general betterment of the race's condition, how would you word it?
_Admonition_
O.M. Diligently train your ideals _upward _and _still upward _toward
a summit where you will find your chiefest pleasure in conduct which,
while contenting you, will be sure to confer benefits upon your neighbor
and the community.
Y.M. Is that a new gospel?
O.M. No.
Y.M. It has been taught before?
O.M. For ten thousand years.
Y.M. By whom?
O.M. All the great religions--all the great gospels.
Y.M. Then there is nothing new about it?
O.M. Oh yes, there is. It is candidly stated, this time. That has not
been done before.
Y.M. How do you mean?
O.M. Haven't I put _you first, _and your neighbor and the community
afterward?
Y.M. Well, yes, that is a difference, it is true.
O.M. The difference between straight speaking and crooked; the
difference between frankness and shuffling.
