Dr. Stockmann. What morass?
Hovstad. The morass that the whole life of our town is built on and is
rotting in.
Dr. Stockmann. What the deuce are you driving at, Hovstad?
Hovstad. The whole of the town's interests have, little by little, got
into the hands of a pack of officials.
Dr. Stockmann. Oh, come!--they are not all officials.
Hovstad. No, but those that are not officials are at any rate the
officials' friends and adherents; it is the wealthy folk, the old
families in the town, that have got us entirely in their hands.
Dr. Stockmann. Yes, but after all they are men of ability and knowledge.
Hovstad. Did they show any ability or knowledge when they laid the
conduit pipes where they are now?
Dr. Stockmann. No, of course that was a great piece of stupidity on
their part. But that is going to be set right now.
Hovstad. Do you think that will be all such plain sailing?
Dr. Stockmann. Plain sailing or no, it has got to be done, anyway.
Hovstad. Yes, provided the press takes up the question.
Dr. Stockmann. I don't think that will be necessary, my dear fellow, I
am certain my brother--
Hovstad. Excuse me, doctor; I feel bound to tell you I am inclined to
take the matter up.
Dr. Stockmann. In the paper?
Hovstad. Yes. When I took over the "People's Messenger" my idea was to
break up this ring of self-opinionated old fossils who had got hold of
all the influence.
Dr. Stockmann. But you know you told me yourself what the result had
been; you nearly ruined your paper.
Hovstad. Yes, at the time we were obliged to climb down a peg or two,
it is quite true--because there was a danger of the whole project of
the Baths coming to nothing if they failed us. But now the scheme has
been carried through, and we can dispense with these grand gentlemen.
Dr. Stockmann. Dispense with them, yes; but, we owe them a great debt
of gratitude.
Hovstad. That shall be recognised ungrudgingly, But a journalist of my
democratic tendencies cannot let such an opportunity as this slip. The
bubble of official infallibility must be pricked. This superstition
must be destroyed, like any other.
Dr. Stockmann. I am whole-heartedly with you in that, Mr. Hovstad; if
it is a superstition, away with it!
Hovstad. I should be very reluctant to bring the Mayor into it, because
he is your brother. But I am sure you will agree with me that truth
should be the first consideration.
Dr. Stockmann. That goes without saying. (With sudden emphasis.) Yes,
but--but--
Hovstad. You must not misjudge me. I am neither more self-interested
nor more ambitious than most men.
Dr. Stockmann. My dear fellow--who suggests anything of the kind?
Hovstad. I am of humble origin, as you know; and that has given me
opportunities of knowing what is the most crying need in the humbler
ranks of life. It is that they should be allowed some part in the
direction of public affairs, Doctor. That is what will develop their
faculties and intelligence and self respect--
