Billing (laying the MS. on the desk). Yes, indeed I have.
Hovstad. Don't you think the Doctor hits them pretty hard?
Billing. Hard? Bless my soul, he's crushing! Every word falls like--how
shall I put it?--like the blow of a sledgehammer.
Hovstad. Yes, but they are not the people to throw up the sponge at the
first blow.
Billing. That is true; and for that reason we must strike blow upon
blow until the whole of this aristocracy tumbles to pieces. As I sat in
there reading this, I almost seemed to see a revolution in being.
Hovstad (turning round). Hush!--Speak so that Aslaksen cannot hear you.
Billing (lowering his voice). Aslaksen is a chicken-hearted chap, a
coward; there is nothing of the man in him. But this time you will
insist on your own way, won't you? You will put the Doctor's article in?
Hovstad. Yes, and if the Mayor doesn't like it--
Billing. That will be the devil of a nuisance.
Hovstad. Well, fortunately we can turn the situation to good account,
whatever happens. If the Mayor will not fall in with the Doctor's
project, he will have all the small tradesmen down on him--the whole of
the Householders' Association and the rest of them. And if he does fall
in with it, he will fall out with the whole crowd of large shareholders
in the Baths, who up to now have been his most valuable supporters--
Billing. Yes, because they will certainly have to fork out a pretty
penny--
Hovstad. Yes, you may be sure they will. And in this way the ring will
be broken up, you see, and then in every issue of the paper we will
enlighten the public on the Mayor's incapability on one point and
another, and make it clear that all the positions of trust in the town,
the whole control of municipal affairs, ought to be put in the hands of
the Liberals.
Billing. That is perfectly true! I see it coming--I see it coming; we
are on the threshold of a revolution!
(A knock is heard at the door.)
Hovstad. Hush! (Calls out.) Come in! (DR. STOCKMANN comes in by the
street door. HOVSTAD goes to meet him.) Ah, it is you, Doctor! Well?
Dr. Stockmann. You may set to work and print it, Mr. Hovstad!
Hovstad. Has it come to that, then?
Billing. Hurrah!
Dr. Stockmann. Yes, print away. Undoubtedly it has come to that. Now
they must take what they get. There is going to be a fight in the town,
Mr. Billing!
Billing. War to the knife, I hope! We will get our knives to their
throats, Doctor!
Dr. Stockmann. This article is only a beginning. I have already got
four or five more sketched out in my head. Where is Aslaksen?
Billing (calls into the printing-room). Aslaksen, just come here for a
minute!
Hovstad. Four or five more articles, did you say? On the same subject?
Dr. Stockmann. No--far from it, my dear fellow. No, they are about
quite another matter. But they all spring from the question of the
water supply and the drainage. One thing leads to another, you know. It
is like beginning to pull down an old house, exactly.
