FURIA.  I knew it!  Ah, your soul, and yours alone,
Is born for me,--thus clearly speaks a voice
That never fails and never plays me false.
Then come!  Oh, come--and let us heed the call.
CATILINE.  What do you mean, my sweet enthusiast?
FURIA.  Come,--let us leave this place, flee far away,
And seek a new and better fatherland.
Here is the spirit's lofty pride repressed;
Here baseness smothers each auspicious spark
Ere it can break into a burning flame.
Come, let us fly;--lo, to the free-born mind
The world's wide compass is a fatherland!
CATILINE.  Oh, irresistibly you lure me on--
FURIA.  Come, let us use the present moment then!
High o'er the hills, beyond the sea's expanse,--
Far, far from Rome we first will stay our journey.
Thousands of friends will follow you outright;
In foreign lands we shall a home design;
There shall we rule; 'twill there be brought to light
That no hearts ever beat as yours and mine.
CATILINE.  Oh, wonderful!--But flee?  Why must we flee?
Here too our love for freedom can be nourished;
Here also is a field for thought and action,
As vast as any that your soul desires.
FURIA.  Here, do you say?  Here, in this paltry Rome,
Where naught exists but thraldom and oppression?
Ah, Lucius, are you likewise one of those
Who can Rome's past recall without confession
Of shame?  Who ruled here then?  Who rule to-day?
Then an heroic race--and now a rabble,
The slaves of other slaves--
CATILINE.  Mock me you may;--
Yet know,--to save Rome's freedom from this babble,
To see yet once again her vanished splendor,
Gladly I should, like Curtius, throw myself
Into the abyss--
FURIA.  I trust you, you alone;
Your eyes glow bright; I know you speak the truth.
Yet go; the priestesses will soon appear;
Their wont it is to meet here at this hour.
CATILINE.  I go; but only to return again.
A magic power binds me to your side;--
So proud a woman have I never seen.
FURIA.  [With a wild smile.]  Then pledge me this; and
swear that you will keep
Whatever you may promise.  Will you, Lucius?
CATILINE.  I will do aught my Furia may require;
Command me,--tell me what am I to promise.
FURIA.  Then listen.  Though I dwell a captive here,
I know there lives a man somewhere in Rome
Whom I have sworn deep enmity to death--
And hatred even beyond the gloomy grave.
CATILINE.  And then--?
FURIA.  Then swear, my enemy shall be
Your enemy till death.  Will you, my Lucius?
CATILINE.  I swear it here by all the mighty gods!
I swear it by my father's honored name
And by my mother's memory--!  But, Furia,--
What troubles you?  Your eyes are wildly flaming,--
And white as marble, deathlike, are your cheeks.
FURIA.  I do not know myself.  A fiery stream
Flows through my veins.  Swear to the end your oath!
CATILINE.  Oh, mighty powers, pour out upon this head
Your boundless fury, let your lightning wrath
Annihilate me, if I break my oath;
Aye, like a demon I shall follow him!
