Mrs. Alving. It was seventy pounds.
Manders. Just think of it--for a paltry seventy pounds to let yourself
be bound in marriage to a fallen woman!
Mrs. Alving. What about myself, then?--I let myself be bound in
marriage to a fallen man.
Manders. Heaven forgive you! What are you saying? A fallen man?
Mrs. Alving. Do you suppose my husband was any purer, when I went with
him to the altar, than Joanna was when Engstrand agreed to marry her?
Manders. The two cases are as different as day from night.
Mrs. Alving. Not so very different, after all. It is true there was a
great difference in the price paid, between a paltry seventy pounds and
a whole fortune.
Manders. How can you compare such totally different things! I presume
you consulted your own heart--and your relations.
Mrs. Alving (looking away from him). I thought you understood where
what you call my heart had strayed to at that time.
Manders (in a constrained voice). If I had understood anything of the
kind, I would not have been a daily guest in your husband's house.
Mrs. Alving. Well, at any rate this much is certain--I didn't consult
myself in the matter at all.
Manders. Still you consulted those nearest to you, as was only
right--your mother, your two aunts.
Mrs. Alving. Yes, that is true. The three of them settled the whole
matter for me. It seems incredible to me now, how clearly they made out
that it would be sheer folly to reject such an offer. If my mother
could only see what all that fine prospect has led to!
Manders. No one can be responsible for the result of it. Anyway there
is this to be said, that the match was made in complete conformity with
law and order.
Mrs. Alving (going to the window). Oh, law and order! I often think it
is that that is at the bottom of all the misery in the world.
Manders. Mrs. Alving, it is very wicked of you to say that.
Mrs. Alving. That may be so; but I don't attach importance to those
obligations and considerations any longer. I cannot! I must struggle
for my freedom.
Manders. What do you mean?
Mrs. Alving (taping on the window panes). I ought never to have
concealed what sort of a life my husband led. But I had not the courage
to do otherwise then--for my own sake, either. I was too much of a
coward.
Manders. A coward?
Mrs. Alving. If others had known anything of what happened, they would
have said: "Poor man, it is natural enough that he should go astray,
when he has a wife that has run away from him."
Manders. They would have had a certain amount of justification for
saying so.
Mrs. Alving (looking fixedly at him). If I had been the woman I ought,
I would have taken Oswald into my confidence and said to him: "Listen,
my son, your father was a dissolute man"--
