  ELINA. With me?
  LADY INGER.  I have long seen that Ostrat is as a cage to you.
The young falcon chafes behind the iron bars.
  ELINA.  My wings are clipped.  Even if you set me free--it would
avail me little.
  LADY INGER.  Your wings are not clipped, except by your own will.
  ELINA.  Will?  My will is in your hands.  Be what you once were,
and I too----
  LADY INGER.  Enough, enough.  Hear what remains----  It would
scarce break your heart to leave Ostrat?
  ELINA.  Maybe not, my mother!
  LADY INGER.  You told me once, that you lived your happiest life
in tales and histories.  What if that life were to be yours once
more?
  ELINA.  What mean you?
  LADY INGER.  Elina--if a mighty noble were now to come and lead
you to his castle, where you should find damsels and pages, silken
robes and lofty halls awaiting you?
  ELINA.  A noble, you say?
  LADY INGER.  A noble.
  ELINA (more softly).  And the Danish envoy comes here to-night?
  LADY INGER.  To-night.
  ELINA.  If so be, then I fear to read the meaning of your words.
  LADY INGER.  There is nought to fear if you misread them not.  Be
sure it is far from my thought to put force upon you.  You shall
choose for yourself in this matter, and follow your own counsel.
  ELINA (comes a step nearer).  Have you heard the story of the
mother that drove across the hills by night with her little children
by her in the sledge?  The wolves were on her track; it was life
or death with her;--and one by one she cast out her little ones,
to gain time and save herself.
  LADY INGER.  Nursery tales!  A mother would tear the heart from
her breast, before she would cast her child to the wolves!
  ELINA.  Were I not my mother's daughter, I would say you were
right.  But you are like that mother; one by one you have cast out
your daughters to the wolves.  The eldest went first.  Five years
ago Merete* went forth from Ostrat; now she dwells in Bergen
and is Vinzents Lunge's** wife.  But think you she is happy as
the Danish noble's lady?  Vinzents Lunge is mighty, well-nigh as
a king; Merete has damsels and pages, silken robes and lofty halls;
but the day has no sunshine for her, and the night no rest; for
she has never loved him.  He came hither and he wooed her; for she
was the greatest heiress in Norway, and he needed to gain a footing
in the land.  I know it; I know it well!  Merete bowed to your
will; she went with the stranger lord.--But what has it cost her?
More tears than a mother should wish to answer for at the day of
reckoning.
    * Pronounce _Mayrayte_  ** Pronounce _Loonghe_.
  LADY INGER.  I know my reckoning, and I fear it not.
  ELINA.  Your reckoning ends not here.  Where is Lucia, your second
child?
  LADY INGER.  Ask God, who took her.
