Bernick: Ah, my dear Betty, I knew you would not have been able to
grasp the exact situation. Besides, I have not mentioned it to a living
soul until today. But now the decisive moment has come, and we must
work openly and with all our might. Yes, even if I have to risk all I
have for its sake, I mean to push the matter through.
Rummel: And we will back you up, Bernick; you may rely upon that.
Rorlund: Do you really promise us so much, then, from this undertaking,
gentlemen?
Bernick: Yes, undoubtedly. Think what a lever it will be to raise the
status of our whole community. Just think of the immense tracts of
forest-land that it will make accessible; think of all the rich
deposits of minerals we shall be able to work; think of the river with
one waterfall above another! Think of the possibilities that open out
in the way of manufactories!
Rorlund: And are you not afraid that an easier intercourse with the
depravity of the outer world--?
Bernick: No, you may make your mind quite easy on that score, Mr.
Rorlund. Our little hive of industry rests now-a-days, God be thanked,
on such a sound moral basis; we have all of us helped to drain it, if I
may use the expression; and that we will continue to do, each in his
degree. You, Mr. Rorlund, will continue your richly blessed activity in
our schools and our homes. We, the practical men of business, will be
the support of the community by extending its welfare within as wide a
radius as possible; and our women--yes, come nearer ladies--you will
like to hear it--our women, I say, our wives and daughters--you,
ladies--will work on undisturbed in the service of charity, and
moreover will be a help and a comfort to your nearest and dearest, as
my dear Betty and Martha are to me and Olaf.(Looks around him.) Where
is Olaf today?
Mrs. Bernick: Oh, in the holidays it is impossible to keep him at home.
Bernick: I have no doubt he is down at the shore again. You will see he
will end by coming to some harm there.
Hilmar: Bah! A little sport with the forces of nature
Mrs. Rummel:  Your family affection is beautiful, Mr. Bernick!
Bernick: Well, the family is the kernel of society. A good home,
honoured and trusty friends, a little snug family circle where no
disturbing elements can cast their shadow-- (KRAP comes in from the
right, bringing letters and papers.)
Krap: The foreign mail, Mr. Bernick--and a telegram from New York.
Bernick (taking the telegram): Ah--from the owners of the "Indian Girl".
Rummel: Is the mail in? Oh, then you must excuse me.
Vigeland:  And me too.
Sandstad: Good day, Mr. Bernick.
Bernick: Good day, good day, gentlemen. And remember, we have a meeting
this afternoon at five o'clock.
The Three Men: Yes--quite so--of course. (They go out to the right.)
Bernick (who has read the telegram): This is thoroughly American!
Absolutely shocking!
