Kroll. I never knew, till yesterday evening, that it was a case of an
apostate man and an "emancipated" woman living together.
Rosmer. Ah! So then you do not believe in any purity of life among
apostates or emancipated folk? You do not believe that they may have
the instinct of morality ingrained in their natures?
Kroll. I have no particular confidence in the kind of morality that is
not rooted in the Church's faith.
Rosmer. And you mean that to apply to Rebecca and myself?--to my
relations with Rebecca?
Kroll. I cannot make any departure, in favour of you two, from my
opinion that there is certainly no very wide gulf between free thinking
and--ahem!
Rosmer. And what?
Kroll. And free love, since you force me to say it.
Rosmer (gently). And you are not ashamed to say that to me!--you, who
have known me ever since I was a boy.
Kroll. It is just for that reason. I know how easily you allow yourself
to be influenced by those you associate with. And as for your
Rebecca--well, your Miss West, then--to tell the truth, we know very
little about her. To cut the matter short, Rosmer--I am not going to
give you up. And you, on your part, ought to try and save yourself in
time.
Rosmer. Save myself? How--? (MRS. HELSETH looks in through the door on
the left.) What do you want?
Mrs. Helseth. I wanted to ask Miss West to come down, sir.
Rosmer. Miss West is not up here.
Mrs. Helseth. Indeed, sir? (Looks round the room.) That is very
strange. (Goes out.)
Rosmer. You were saying--?
Kroll. Listen to me. As to what may have gone on here in secret while
Beata was alive, and as to what may be still going on here, I have no
wish to inquire more closely. You were, of course, extremely unhappy in
your marriage--and to some extent that may be urged in your excuse--
Rosmer. Oh, how little you really know me!
Kroll. Do not interrupt me. What I want to say is this. If you
definitely must continue living with Miss West, it is absolutely
necessary that you should conceal the revolution of opinion--I mean the
distressing apostasy--that she has beguiled you into. Let me speak! Let
me speak! I say that, if you are determined to go on with this folly,
for heaven's sake hold any variety of ideas or opinions or beliefs you
like--but keep your opinions to yourself. It is a purely personal
matter, and there is not the slightest necessity to go proclaiming it
all over the countryside.
Rosmer. It is a necessity for me to abandon a false and equivocal
position.
Kroll. But you have a duty towards the traditions of your family,
Rosmer! Remember that! From time immemorial Rosmersholm has been a
stronghold of discipline and order, of respect and esteem for all that
the best people in our community have upheld and sanctioned. The whole
neighbourhood has taken its tone from Rosmersholm. If the report gets
about that you yourself have broken with what I may call the Rosmer
family tradition, it will evoke an irreparable state of unrest.
