 (5)For an instance of the technical methods by which he suggested
   the supernormal element in the atmosphere of the play, see
   Introduction to _A Doll's House_, p. xiv.
THE MASTER BUILDER.
PLAY IN THREE ACTS.
CHARACTERS.
  HALVARD SOLNESS, Master Builder.
  ALINE SOLNESS, his wife.
  DOCTOR HERDAL, physician.
  KNUT BROVIK, formerly an architect, now in SOLNESS'S employment.
  RAGNAR BROVIK, his son, draughtsman.
  KAIA BROVIK, his niece, book-keeper.
  MISS HILDA WANGEL.
  Some Ladies.
  A Crowd in the street.
  The action passes in and about SOLNESS'S house.
ACT FIRST.
  A plainly-furnished work-room in the house of HALVARD SOLNESS.
  Folding doors on the left lead out to the hall.  On the right
  is the door leading to the inner rooms of the house.  At the
  back is an open door into the draughtsmen's office.  In front,
  on the left, a desk with books, papers and writing materials.
  Further back than the folding door, a stove.  In the right-
  hand corner, a sofa, a table, and one or two chairs.  On the
  table a water-bottle and glass.  A smaller table, with a
  rocking-chair and arm-chair, in front on the right.  Lighted
  lamps, with shades, on the table in the draughtmen's office,
  on the table in the corner, and on the desk.
  In the draughtsmen's office sit KNUT BROVIK and his son RAGNAR,
  occupied with plans and calculations.  At the desk in the outer
  office stands KAIA FOSLI, writing in the ledger.  KNUT BROVICK
  is a spare old man with white hair and beard.  He wears a
  rather threadbare but well-brushed black coat, with spectacles,
  and a somewhat discoloured white neckcloth.  RAGNAR BROVIK is
  a well-dressed, light-haired man in his thirties, with a
  slight stoop.  KAIA FOSLI is a slightly built girl, a little
  over twenty, carefully dressed, and delicate-looking.  She has
  a green shade over her eyes.--All three go on working for some
  time in silence.
KNUT BROVIK.
[Rises suddenly, as if in distress, from the table; breathes heavily and
laboriously as he comes forward into the doorway.] No, I can't bear it
much longer!
KAIA.
[Going up to him.] You are feeling very ill this evening, are you not,
Uncle?
BROVIK.
Oh, I seem to get worse every day.
RAGNAR.
[Has risen and advances.] You ought to go home, father. Try to get a
little sleep--
BROVIK.
[Impatiently.] Go to bed, I suppose? Would you have me stifled outright?
KAIA.
Then take a little walk.
RAGNAR.
Yes, do. I will come with you.
BROVIK.
[With warmth.] I will not go till he comes! I and determined to have
it out this evening with--[in a tone of suppressed bitterness]--with
him--with the chief.
KAIA.
[Anxiously.] Oh no, uncle,--do wait awhile before doing that!
RAGNAR.
Yes, better wait, father!
BROVIK.
[Draws is breath laboriously.] Ha--ha--! _I_ haven't much time for
waiting.
KAIA.
[Listening.] Hush! I hear him on the stairs.
     [All three go back to their work.  A short silence.
  HALVARD SOLNESS comes in through the hall door.  He is a man no
  longer young, but healthy and vigorous, with close-cut curly
  hair, dark moustache and dark thick eyebrows.  He wears a
  greyish-green buttoned jacket with an upstanding collar and
  broad lapels.  On his head he wears a soft grey felt hat,
  and he has one or two light portfolios under his arm.
