  DAGNY. Canst thou doubt it?
  HIORDIS. Hm; yesterday I doubted it not; but----
  DAGNY. What meanest thou?
  HIORDIS. Nay, 'tis nought; let us speak of other matters.
  DAGNY. No truly. Hiordis, tell me----!
  HIORDIS. It will profit thee little; but since thou wilt have it
so---- (With a malignant expression.) Canst thou remember once, over
in Iceland--we had followed with Ornulf thy father to the Council,
and we sat with our playmates in the Council Hall, as is the manner
of women. Then came two strangers into the hall.
  DAGNY. Sigurd and Gunnar.
  HIORDIS. They greeted us in courteous fashion, and sat on the
bench beside us; and there passed between us much merry talk. There
were some who must needs know why these two vikings came thither, and
if they were not minded to take them wives there in the island. Then
said Sigurd: "It will be hard for me to find the woman that shall be
to my mind." Ornulf laughed, and said there was no lack of high-born
and well-dowered women in Iceland; but Sigurd answered: "The warrior
needs a high-souled wife. She whom I choose must not rest content
with a humble lot; no honour must seem to high for her to strive for;
she must go with me gladly a-viking; war-weed must she wear; she must
egg me on to strife, and never wink her eyes where sword-blades
lighten; for if she be faint-hearted, scant honour will befall me."
Is it not true, so Sigurd spake?
  DAGNY (hesitatingly). True, he did--but----
  HIORDIS. _Such_ was she to be, the woman who could make life fair
to him; and then--(with a scornful smile) then he chose thee!
  DAGNY (starting, as in pain). Ha, thou wouldst say that----?
  HIORDIS. Doubtless thou has proved thyself proud and high-souled;
hast claimed honour of all, that Sigurd might be honoured in thee--
is it not so?
  DAGNY. Nay, Hiordis, but----
  HIORDIS. Thou hast egged him on to great deeds, followed him in war-
weed, and joyed to be where the strife raged hottest--hast thou not?
  DAGNY (deeply moved). No, no!
  HIORDIS. Hast thou, then, been faint of heart, so that Sigurd has
been put to shame?
  DAGNY (overpowered). Hiordis, Hiordis!
  HIORDIS (smiling scornfully). Yet thy lot has been a happy one all
these years;--think'st thou that Sigurd can say the same?
  DAGNY. Torture me not. Woe is me! thou hast made me see myself
too clearly.
  HIORDIS. A jesting word, and at once thou art in tears! Think no
more of it. Look what I have done to-day. (Takes some arrows from
the table.) Are they not keen and biting--feel! I know well how to
sharpen arrows, do I not?
  DAGNY. And to use them too; thou strikest surely, Hiordis! All
that thou hast said to me--I have never thought of before. (More
vehemently.) But that Sigurd----! That for all these years I should
have made his life heavy and unhonoured;--no, no, it cannot be true!
  HIORDIS. Nay now, comfort thee, Dagny; indeed it is not true. Were
Sigurd of the same mind as in former days, it might be true enough;
for then was his whole soul bent on being the foremost man in the
land;--now he is content with a lowlier lot.
