Lyngstrand. Yes, one day he got the captain to lend him a lot of old
newspapers and he was always reading them. For he wanted to teach
himself Norwegian, he said.
Ellida. Well, and then?
Lyngstrand. It was one evening in rough weather. All hands were on
deck--except the boatswain and myself. For he had sprained his foot and
couldn't walk, and I was feeling rather low, and was lying in my berth.
Well, he was sitting there in the forecastle, reading one of those old
papers again.
Ellida. Well, well!
Lyngstrand. But just as he was sitting there quietly reading, I heard
him utter a sort of yell. And when I looked at him, I saw his face was
as white as chalk. And then he began to crush and crumple the paper, and
to tear it into a thousand shreds. But he did it so quietly, quietly.
Ellida. Didn't he say anything? Didn't he speak?
Lyngstrand. Not directly; but a little after he said to himself, as it
were: "Married--to another man. While I was away."
Ellida (closes her eyes, and says, half to herself). He said that?
Lyngstrand. Yes. And think--he said it in perfect Norwegian. That man
must have learnt foreign languages very easily--
Ellida. And what then? What else happened?
Lyngstrand. Well, now the remarkable part is coming--that I shall never
forget as long as I live. For he added, and that quite quietly, too:
"But she is mine, and mine she shall remain. And she shall follow me, if
I should come home and fetch her, as a drowned man from the dark sea."
Ellida (pouring herself out a glass of water. Her hand trembles). Ah!
How close it is here today.
Lyngstrand. And he said this with such strength of will that I thought
he must be the man to do it.
Ellida. Don't you know anything about--what became of the man?
Lyngstrand. Oh! madam, he's certainly not living now.
Ellida (quickly). Why do you think that?
Lyngstrand. Why? Because we were shipwrecked afterwards in the Channel.
I had got into the longboat with the captain and five others. The mate
got into the stern-boat; and the American was in that too, and another
man.
Ellida. And nothing has been heard of them since?
Lyngstrand. Not a word. The friend who looks after me said so quite
recently in a letter. But it's just because of this I was so anxious to
make it into a work of art. I see the faithless sailor-wife so life-like
before me, and the avenger who is drowned, and who nevertheless comes
home from the sea. I can see them both so distinctly.
Ellida. I, too. (Rises.) Come; let us go in--or, rather, go down
to Wangel. I think it is so suffocatingly hot. (She goes out of the
arbour.)
Lyngstrand (who has also risen). I, for my part, must ask you to excuse
me. This was only to be a short visit because of the birthday.
