  DAGNY. Fie, Hiordis, how canst thou talk so!
  HIORDIS. Canst thou sing sorceries, Dagny?
  DAGNY (with horror). I!
  HIORDIS. I trow thou canst; how else didst thou lure Sigurd to thee?
  DAGNY. Thou speakest shameful things; let me go!
  HIORDIS (holding her back). Because I jest! Nay, hear me to the
end! Think, Dagny, what it is to sit by the window in the eventide
and hear the kelpie[1] wailing in the boat-house; to sit waiting and
listening for the dead men's ride to Valhal; for their way lies past
us here in the north. They are the brave men that fell in fight, the
strong women that did not drag out their lives tamely, like thee and
me; they sweep through the storm-night on their black horses, with
jangling bells! (Embraces DAGNY, and presses her wildly in her arms.)
Ha, Dagny! think of riding the last ride on so rare a steed!
    [1] "Draugen," a vague and horrible sea-monster.
  DAGNY (struggling to escape). Hiordis, Hiordis! Let me go! I will
not hear thee!
  HIORDIS (laughing). Weak art thou of heart, and easily affrighted.
    (GUNNAR enters from the back, with SIGURD and THOROLF.)
  GUNNAR. Now, truly, are all things to my very mind! I have found
thee again, Sigurd, my brave brother, as kind and true as of old. I
have Ornulf's son under my roof, and the old man himself follows
speedily after; is it not so?
  THOROLF. So he promised.
  GUNNAR. Then all I lack is that Egil should be here.
  THOROLF. 'Tis plain thou lovest the boy, thou namest him so oft.
  GUNNAR. Truly I love him; he is my only child; and he is like to
grow up fair and kindly.
  HIORDIS. But no warrior.
  GUNNAR. Nay--that thou must not say.
  SIGURD. I marvel thou didst send him from thee----
  GUNNAR. Would that I had not! (Half aside.) But thou knowest, Sigurd,
he who loves overmuch, takes not always the manliest part. (Aloud.) I
had few men in my house, and none could be sure of his life when it was
known that Ornulf lay in the cove with a ship of war.
  HIORDIS. One thing I know that ought first to be made safe, life
afterwards.
  THOROLF. And that is----?
  HIORDIS. Honour and fame among men.
  GUNNAR. Hiordis!
  SIGURD. It shall not be said of Gunnar that he has risked his honour
by doing this.
  GUNNAR (sternly). None shall make strife between me and Ornulf's
kinsfolk!
  HIORDIS (smiling). Hm; tell me, Sigurd--can thy ship sail with
any wind?
  SIGURD. Ay, when it is cunningly steered.
  HIORDIS. Good! I too will steer my ship cunningly, and make my way
whither I will.
    (Retires towards the back.)
  DAGNY (whispers, uneasily). Sigurd, let us hence--this very night!
  SIGURD. It is too late now; it was thou that----
  DAGNY. Then I held Hiordis dear; but now----; I have heard her
speak words I shudder to think of.
    (SIGURD'S men, with other guests, men and women, house-carls and
      handmaidens, enter from the back.)
