_Antony_, smiling with pleasure--"In fact, he has not a very lofty
intellect."
_Hilarion_--"If they had put you in his place, it would have been a
great satisfaction for your brethren, as well as yourself. This life,
apart from others, is a bad thing."
_Antony_--"On the contrary! Man, being a spirit, should withdraw himself
from perishable things. All action degrades him. I would like not to
cling to the earth--even with the soles of my feet."
_Hilarion_--"Hypocrite! who plunges himself into solitude to free
himself the better from the outbreaks of his lusts! You deprive yourself
of meat, of wine, of stoves, of slaves, and of honours; but how you let
your imagination offer you banquets, perfumes, naked women, and
applauding crowds! Your chastity is but a more subtle kind of
corruption, and your contempt for the world is but the impotence of your
hatred against it! This is the reason that persons like you are so
lugubrious, or perhaps it is because they lack faith. The possession of
the truth gives joy. Was Jesus sad? He used to go about surrounded by
friends; He rested under the shade of the olive, entered the house of
the publican, multiplied the cups, pardoned the fallen woman, healing
all sorrows. As for you, you have no pity, save for your own
wretchedness. You are so much swayed by a kind of remorse, and by a
ferocious insanity, that you would repel the caress of a dog or the
smile of a child."
_Antony_, bursts out sobbing--"Enough! Enough! You move my heart too
much."
_Hilarion_--"Shake off the vermin from your rags! Get rid of your filth!
Your God is not a Moloch who requires flesh as a sacrifice!"
_Antony_--"Still, suffering is blessed. The cherubim bend down to
receive the blood of confessors."
_Hilarion_--"Then admire the Montanists! They surpass all the rest."
_Antony_--"But it is the truth of the doctrine that makes the martyr."
_Hilarion_--"How can he prove its excellence, seeing that he testifies
equally on behalf of error?"
_Antony_--"Be silent, viper!"
_Hilarion_--"It is not perhaps so difficult. The exhortations of
friends, the pleasure of outraging popular feeling, the oath they take,
a certain giddy excitement--a thousand things, in fact, go to help
them."
Antony draws away from Hilarion. Hilarion follows him--"Besides, this
style of dying introduces great disorders. Dionysius, Cyprian, and
Gregory avoided it. Peter of Alexandria has disapproved of it; and the
Council of Elvira ..."
_Antony_, stops his ears--"I will listen to no more!"
_Hilarion_, raising his voice--"Here you are again falling into your
habitual sin--laziness. Ignorance is the froth of pride. You say, 'My
conviction is formed; why discuss the matter?' and you despise the
doctors, the philosophers, tradition, and even the text of the law, of
which you know nothing. Do you think you hold wisdom in your hand?"
_Antony_--"I am always hearing him! His noisy words fill my head."
_Hilarion_--"The endeavours to comprehend God are better than your
mortifications for the purpose of moving him. We have no merit save our
thirst for truth. Religion alone does not explain everything; and the
solution of the problems which you have ignored might render it more
unassailable and more sublime. Therefore, it is essential for each man's
salvation that he should hold intercourse with his brethren--otherwise
the Church, the assembly of the faithful, would be only a word--and that
he should listen to every argument, and not disdain anything, or anyone.
Balaam the soothsayer, AEschylus the poet, and the sybil of Cumae,
announced the Saviour. Dionysius the Alexandrian received from Heaven a
command to read every book. Saint Clement enjoins us to study Greek
literature. Hermas was converted by the illusion of a woman that he
loved!"
