'And further, that the said chirurgeons shall visit and search such-like
persons as shall either send for them or be named and directed unto them
by the examiners of every parish, and inform themselves of the disease
of the said parties.
'And forasmuch as the said chirurgeons are to be sequestered from all
other cures, and kept only to this disease of the infection, it is
ordered that every of the said chirurgeons shall have twelve-pence a
body searched by them, to be paid out of the goods of the party
searched, if he be able, or otherwise by the parish.
Nurse-keepers.
'If any nurse-keeper shall remove herself out of any infected house
before twenty-eight days after the decease of any person dying of the
infection, the house to which the said nurse-keeper doth so remove
herself shall be shut up until the said twenty-eight days be expired.'
ORDERS CONCERNING INFECTED HOUSES AND PERSONS SICK OF THE PLAGUE.
Notice to be given of the Sickness.
'The master of every house, as soon as any one in his house complaineth,
either of blotch or purple, or swelling in any part of his body, or
falleth otherwise dangerously sick, without apparent cause of some other
disease, shall give knowledge thereof to the examiner of health within
two hours after the said sign shall appear.
Sequestration of the Sick.
'As soon as any man shall be found by this examiner, chirurgeon, or
searcher to be sick of the plague, he shall the same night be
sequestered in the same house; and in case he be so sequestered, then
though he afterwards die not, the house wherein he sickened should be
shut up for a month, after the use of the due preservatives taken by the
rest.
Airing the Stuff.
'For sequestration of the goods and stuff of the infection, their
bedding and apparel and hangings of chambers must be well aired with
fire and such perfumes as are requisite within the infected house before
they be taken again to use. This to be done by the appointment of an
examiner.
Shutting up of the House.
'If any person shall have visited any man known to be infected of the
plague, or entered willingly into any known infected house, being not
allowed, the house wherein he inhabiteth shall be shut up for certain
days by the examiner's direction.
None to be removed out of infected Houses, but, &C.
'Item, that none be removed out of the house where he falleth sick of
the infection into any other house in the city (except it be to the
pest-house or a tent, or unto some such house which the owner of the
said visited house holdeth in his own hands and occupieth by his own
servants); and so as security be given to the parish whither such remove
is made, that the attendance and charge about the said visited persons
shall be observed and charged in all the particularities before
expressed, without any cost of that parish to which any such remove
shall happen to be made, and this remove to be done by night. And it
shall be lawful to any person that hath two houses to remove either his
sound or his infected people to his spare house at his choice, so as, if
he send away first his sound, he not after send thither his sick, nor
again unto the sick the sound; and that the same which he sendeth be for
one week at the least shut up and secluded from company, for fear of
some infection at the first not appearing.
