The truth is, the case of poor servants was very dismal, as I shall have
occasion to mention again by-and-by, for it was apparent a prodigious
number of them would be turned away, and it was so. And of them
abundance perished, and particularly of those that these false prophets
had flattered with hopes that they should be continued in their
services, and carried with their masters and mistresses into the
country; and had not public charity provided for these poor creatures,
whose number was exceeding great and in all cases of this nature must be
so, they would have been in the worst condition of any people in the
city.
These things agitated the minds of the common people for many months,
while the first apprehensions were upon them, and while the plague was
not, as I may say, yet broken out. But I must also not forget that the
more serious part of the inhabitants behaved after another manner. The
Government encouraged their devotion, and appointed public prayers and
days of fasting and humiliation, to make public confession of sin and
implore the mercy of God to avert the dreadful judgement which hung over
their heads; and it is not to be expressed with what alacrity the people
of all persuasions embraced the occasion; how they flocked to the
churches and meetings, and they were all so thronged that there was
often no coming near, no, not to the very doors of the largest churches.
Also there were daily prayers appointed morning and evening at several
churches, and days of private praying at other places; at all which the
people attended, I say, with an uncommon devotion. Several private
families also, as well of one opinion as of another, kept family fasts,
to which they admitted their near relations only. So that, in a word,
those people who were really serious and religious applied themselves in
a truly Christian manner to the proper work of repentance and
humiliation, as a Christian people ought to do.
Again, the public showed that they would bear their share in these
things; the very Court, which was then gay and luxurious, put on a face
of just concern for the public danger. All the plays and interludes
which, after the manner of the French Court, had been set up, and began
to increase among us, were forbid to act; the gaming-tables, public
dancing-rooms, and music-houses, which multiplied and began to debauch
the manners of the people, were shut up and suppressed; and the jack-
puddings, merry-andrews, puppet-shows, rope-dancers, and such-like
doings, which had bewitched the poor common people, shut up their shops,
finding indeed no trade; for the minds of the people were agitated with
other things, and a kind of sadness and horror at these things sat upon
the countenances even of the common people. Death was before their eyes,
and everybody began to think of their graves, not of mirth and
diversions.
But even those wholesome reflections--which, rightly managed, would have
most happily led the people to fall upon their knees, make confession of
their sins, and look up to their merciful Saviour for pardon, imploring
His compassion on them in such a time of their distress, by which we
might have been as a second Nineveh--had a quite contrary extreme in the
common people, who, ignorant and stupid in their reflections as they
were brutishly wicked and thoughtless before, were now led by their
fright to extremes of folly; and, as I have said before, that they ran
to conjurers and witches, and all sorts of deceivers, to know what
should become of them (who fed their fears, and kept them always alarmed
and awake on purpose to delude them and pick their pockets), so they
were as mad upon their running after quacks and mountebanks, and every
practising old woman, for medicines and remedies; storing themselves
with such multitudes of pills, potions, and preservatives, as they were
called, that they not only spent their money but even poisoned
themselves beforehand for fear of the poison of the infection; and
prepared their bodies for the plague, instead of preserving them against
it. On the other hand it is incredible and scarce to be imagined, how
the posts of houses and corners of streets were plastered over with
doctors' bills and papers of ignorant fellows, quacking and tampering in
physic, and inviting the people to come to them for remedies, which was
generally set off with such flourishes as these, viz.: 'Infallible
preventive pills against the plague.' 'Neverfailing preservatives
against the infection.' 'Sovereign cordials against the corruption of
the air.' 'Exact regulations for the conduct of the body in case of an
infection.' 'Anti-pestilential pills.' 'Incomparable drink against the
plague, never found out before.' 'An universal remedy for the plague.'
'The only true plague water.' 'The royal antidote against all kinds of
infection';--and such a number more that I cannot reckon up; and if I
could, would fill a book of themselves to set them down.
