"If I only had a pick." But he had none. He found a thick, hard, sharp
stone. With it he picked up the hard earth, but had to bend almost
double in using it. "At home," he thought, "they have handles to
picks." The handle was put through a hole in the iron. He turned the
matter over and over in his mind, how he might put a hole through the
stone. But he found no means. He searched out a branch with a crotch
at one end. He tied the stone to this with strong cocoa fiber and
bark.
[Illustration: ROBINSON'S TOOLS]
How his eye glistened as he looked at the new tool! Now he began to
work. He first loosened up the earth with his pick, then he dug it
out with his spade and planted in a high thistle. Many days he had
to work, but finally one evening the hedge was ready. He had a row
in a semicircle in front of his cave. He counted the marks on his calendar
tree. The day on which he had begun to make his hedge he had
especially marked out. He had worked fourteen days.
He had completed his hedge with the exception of a small hole that
must serve for a door. But the door must not be seen from without.
As Robinson thought, it came to him that there was still place for
two thistles on the outside. He could easily get in, but the entrance
was difficult to find from the outside.
Robinson looked on his hedge from without. It was not yet thick
enough. For this reason he planted small thistles between the larger
ones. With the digging them out and transplanting them he was a whole
week longer.
Finally, the hedge and the yard were ready. Now Robinson could rest
without fear and sleep in his cave, and could have his goat near him
all the time. It delighted him greatly. It ran after him continually
like a dog. When he came back from an absence, it bleated for joy and
ran to meet him as soon as he got inside the hedge. Robinson felt that
he was not entirely alone. He had now a living being near him.
XX
ROBINSON GETS READY FOR WINTER
There was one thing that troubled Robinson greatly. "What will become
of me when the winter comes? I will have no fire to warm me. I have
no clothing to protect me from the cold, and where shall I find food
when snow and ice cover all the ground and when the trees are bare
and the spring is frozen? It will be cold then in my cave; what shall
I do? It is cold and rainy already. I believe this is harvest time
and winter will soon be here. Winter and no stove, no winter clothing,
no winter store of food and no winter dwelling. What shall I do?"
He considered again the project of making fire. He again sought out
two pieces of wood and sat down and rubbed them together. The sweat
rolled down his face. When the wood began to get warm, his hand would
become tired, and he would have to stop. When he began again the wood
was cold. He worked for an hour or two, then he laid the wood aside
and said, "I don't believe I can do it I must do the next best thing.
I can at least get warm clothing to protect me from the rain and
snow." He looked down at his worn, thin clothing, his trousers, his
shirt, his jacket; they had become so thin and worn that they were
threadbare.
