At the first entrance they were to have the tents allowed them to live
in, which they then had from the Tower; but as soon as leisure and
conveniences admitted, every farmer was obliged to begin to build him a
farm-house, which he would do gradually, some and some, as he could spare
time from his other works, and money from his little stock.
In order to furnish himself with carts, waggons, ploughs, harrows, wheel-
barrows, hurdles, and all such necessary utensils of husbandry, there
would be an absolute necessity of wheelwrights or cartwrights, one at
least to each division.
Thus, by the way, there would be employed three servants to each farmer,
that makes sixty persons.
Four families of wheelwrights, one to each division--which, suppose five
in a family, makes twenty persons.  Suppose four head-carpenters, with
each three men; and as at first all would be building together, they
would to every house building have at least one labourer.  Four families
of carpenters, five to each family, and three servants, is thirty-two
persons; one labourer to each house building is twenty persons more.
Thus here would be necessarily brought together in the very first of the
work one hundred and thirty-two persons, besides the head-farmers, who at
five also to each family are one hundred more; in all, two hundred and
thirty-two.
For the necessary supply of these with provisions, clothes, household
stuff, &c. (for all should be done among themselves), first, they must
have at least four butchers with their families (twenty persons), four
shoemakers with their families and each shoemaker two journeymen (for
every trade would increase the number of customers to every trade).  This
is twenty-eight persons more.
They would then require a hatmaker, a glover, at least two ropemakers,
four tailors, three weavers of woollen and three weavers of linen, two
basket-makers, two common brewers, ten or twelve shop-keepers to furnish
chandlery and grocery wares, and as many for drapery and mercery, over
and above what they could work.  This makes two-and-forty families more,
each at five in a family, which, is two hundred and ten persons; all the
labouring part of these must have at least two servants (the brewers
more), which I cast up at forty more.
Add to these two ministers, one clerk, one sexton or grave-digger, with
their families, two physicians, three apothecaries, two surgeons (less
there could not be, only that for the beginning it might be said the
physicians should be surgeons, and I take them so); this is forty-five
persons, besides servants; so that, in short--to omit many tradesmen more
who would be wanted among them--there would necessarily and voluntarily
follow to these twenty families of farmers at least six hundred more of
their own people.
It is no difficult thing to show that the ready money of 4,000 pounds
which the Government was to advance to those twenty farmers would employ
and pay, and consequently subsist, all these numerous dependants in the
works which must severally be done for them for the first year, after
which the farmers would begin to receive their own money back again; for
all these tradesmen must come to their own market to buy corn, flesh,
milk, butter, cheese, bacon, &c., which after the first year the farmers,
having no rent to pay, would have to spare sufficiently, and so take back
their own money with advantage.  I need not go on to mention how, by
consequence provisions increasing and money circulating, this town should
increase in a very little time.
