But the inside of the church has many very good things in it, and worth
observation; it was for some ages the burying-place of the English Saxon
kings, whose _reliques_, at the repair of the church, were collected by
Bishop Fox, and being put together into large wooden chests lined with
lead were again interred at the foot of the great wall in the choir,
three on one side, and three on the other, with an account whose bones
are in each chest.  Whether the division of the _reliques_ might be
depended upon, has been doubted, but is not thought material, so that we
do but believe they are all there.
The choir of the church appears very magnificent; the roof is very high,
and the Gothic work in the arched part is very fine, though very old; the
painting in the windows is admirably good, and easy to be distinguished
by those that understand those things: the steps ascending to the choir
make a very fine show, having the statues of King James and his son King
Charles, in copper, finely cast; the first on the right hand, and the
other on the left, as you go up to the choir.
The choir is said to be the longest in England; and as the number of
prebendaries, canons, &c., are many, it required such a length.  The
ornaments of the choir are the effects of the bounty of several bishops.
The fine altar (the noblest in England by much) was done by Bishop
Morley; the roof and the coat-of-arms of the Saxon and Norman kings were
done by Bishop Fox; and the fine throne for the bishop in the choir was
given by Bishop Mew in his lifetime; and it was well it was for if he had
ordered it by will, there is reason to believe it had never been
done--that reverend prelate, notwithstanding he enjoyed so rich a
bishopric, scarce leaving money enough behind him to pay for his coffin.
There are a great many persons of rank buried in this church, besides the
Saxon kings mentioned above, and besides several of the most eminent
bishops of the See.  Just under the altar lies a son of William the
Conqueror, without any monument; and behind the altar, under a very fine
and venerable monument, lies the famous Lord Treasurer Weston, late Earl
of Portland, Lord High Treasurer of England under King Charles I.  His
effigy is in copper armour at full-length, with his head raised on three
cushions of the same, and is a very magnificent work.  There is also a
very fine monument of Cardinal Beaufort in his cardinal's robes and hat.
The monument of Sir John Cloberry is extraordinary, but more because it
puts strangers upon inquiring into his story than for anything wonderful
in the figure, it being cut in a modern dress (the habit gentlemen wore
in those times, which, being now so much out of fashion, appears mean
enough).  But this gentleman's story is particular, being the person
solely entrusted with the secret of the restoration of King Charles II.,
as the messenger that passed between General Monk on one hand, and Mr.
Montague and others entrusted by King Charles II. on the other hand;
which he managed so faithfully as to effect that memorable event, to
which England owes the felicity of all her happy days since that time; by
which faithful service Sir John Cloberry, then a private musketeer only,
raised himself to the honour of a knight, with the reward of a good
estate from the bounty of the king.
