After this you may well imagine I took a new Resolution not to part with
the Prospect I had of making my Fortune in the Post I was in, joyning
Company therefore with three or four more Officers who belong'd to the
same Army in which I serv'd, we set out with all Expedition. I don't
remember to have been better diverted upon the Road, since I first knew
what it was to Travel; one of our Company was a _Provincial_, and the
very Quintessence of Wit and Gaiety. There was not the most trivial
Occurrence but he dexterously made use of it to divert us, particularly
at a small Village within a Days Journey of _Lions_. The Bailiff of the
Village coming to our Inn to gather a kind of Tax (as it happen'd to be
a Day pitch'd upon for that end) for the Relief of the Poor, the
_Provincial_ Gentleman being deputed, the Steward of our Company, fell
into some Discourse with the Bailiff in the Kitchin. Among other Things,
the Bailiff being mellow, gave him to understand, that though his Mien
and Equipage was not extraordinary, yet he was the Chief Man in the
Town, and immediately represented the King's Majesty, so that if any of
the Company were of Quality, it was his Business to show them that
Respect which was due to them. The _Provincial_ had a good Cue to give
us a Comical Scene, which all was contriv'd upon the Spot, to drive away
a deep Melancholy from one of our Company, who had not spoke a Word in
two Days. With that he took the Bailiff aside, Sir, said the Person, we
all attend here on the Prince of ---- Eldest Son, who is going to Travel
into _Italy_. Had there been a Garison here, it ought to have been drawn
up at his Entrance, and the Keys of the Town deliver'd to him; but since
you are not so provided, you may exert yourselves as much as you can; I
suppose you have Musick in the Town? yes Sir said the Bailiff, we have
three Violins, a grand Bass, and a Citherne. Do you never exhibit any
Plays says the _Provincial_, or other Antick Performance? No replies the
Bailiff, but we have a Sport that comes very near it, which we entertain
the Country with twice a Year, _viz_. at _Easter_ and _Whitsunday_, and
the Parts are now fresh in the Actors Memory. This will do says the
_Provincial_, but see all Things are ready to give the Young Prince the
Diversion immediately after Supper, because he durst not sit up very
late. As for the Prologue, wherein you are to Address your selves to his
Highness, I will furnish you with the Method and Form in which it must
be spoke by the School-master of the Town. Now all this was carried on
in Privacy from us, tell we were call'd out one by one, all excepting
the Chagrin Gentleman, who lay dozing in an two arm'd Chair, to whom we
were instructed to pay a singular Respect to during Supper, to blind the
Matter. And now the whole Village was drawn about the Inn, to have a
Sight of the young Prince. After Supper all the Tables and Chairs were
remov'd; the Bailiff enters with his Staff, and according to Information
given him, Kneels down and pays his Respects to the suppos'd Prince;
After him comes in the Actors in their proper Dresses; and then the
School-master, who open'd the Farce with a Comical Address made by the
_Provincial_ Officer, which in every Line hinted at some Passage of the
Melancholy Gentleman's Life, but with such an Ambiguous turn, and yet
home to the Man, that it was an excellent Piece of Diversion, to observe
the variety of Motions in the Princes Countenance, who thought all to be
Witchcraft and Inchantment. The Force being over, and we left to our
selves, the _Provincial_ returning up Stairs from conducting his Troop
to the Door, Well, Gentlemen, says he, how do you relish your Diversion?
_Et vous Monsieur le Prince_, if this will not bring you to your self,
you shall be Dethron'd at _Lyons_, and put upon a Level with the rest of
the Company; for he that pretends to put on a starch'd reserv'd Air upon
a Journey, make himself a Prince by his Distance, and so must either
lose his Dignity by being good Humour'd, or pay the Reckoning like a
Prince, and that we have Decreed shall be your Choice the Remainder of
the Journey. The _Provincial_ gain'd his End, for either this comical
Accident was the Occasion, or the Term of the Gentleman's Melancholy was
expired; for afterwards he put on a gay Temper, and proved tollerable
Company.
