When _Villeroy_ was told of our Retreat, he was much surpriz'd, as
thinking it a Thing utterly impossible. However, at last, being sensible
of the Truth of it, he gave Orders for our Rear to be attack'd; but we
kept fireing from Ditch to Ditch, and Hedge to Hedge, till Night came
upon us; and so our little Army got clear of its gigantick Enemy with
very inconsiderable Loss. However, the _French_ fail'd not, in their
customary Way, to express the Sense of their vexation, at this
Disappointment, with Fire and Sword in the Neighbourhood round. Thus
Prince _Vaudemont_ acquir'd more Glory by that Retreat than an intire
Victory could have given him; and it was not, I confess, the least Part
of Satisfaction in Life, that my self had a Share of Honour under him to
bring off the Rear at that his glorious Retreat at _Arfeel_.
However, in further Revenge of this political Chicane of the Prince of
_Vaudemont_, and to oblige, if possible, King _William_ to raise the
Siege from before _Namur, Villeroy_ enter'd into the Resolution of
Bombarding _Brussells_. In order to which he encamp'd at _Anderleck_,
and then made his Approaches as near as was convenient to the Town.
There he caus'd to be planted thirty Mortars, and rais'd a Battery of
ten Guns to shoot hot Bullets into the Place.
But before they fir'd from either, _Villeroy_, in complement to the Duke
of _Bavaria_, sent a Messenger to know in what Part of the Town his
Dutchess chose to reside, that they might, as much as possible, avoid
incommoding her, by directing their Fire to other Parts. Answer was
return'd that she was at her usual Place of Residence, the Palace; and
accordingly their fireing from Battery or Mortars little incommoded them
that Way.
Five Days the Bombardment continu'd; and with such Fury, that the Centre
of that noble City was quite lay'd in Rubbish. Most of the Time of
Bombarding I was upon the Counterscarp, where I could best see and
distinguish; and I have often counted in the Air, at one time, more than
twenty Bombs; for they shot whole Vollies out of their Mortars all
together. This, as it must needs be terrible, threw the Inhabitants into
the utmost Confusion. Cartloads of Nuns, that for many Years before had
never been out of the Cloister, were now hurry'd about from Place to
Place, to find Retreats of some Security. In short, the Groves, and
Parts remote, were all crowded; and the most spacious Streets had hardly
a Spectator left to view their Ruins. Nothing was to be seen like that
Dexterity of our People in extinguishing the Fires; for where the
red-hot Bullets fell, and rais'd new Conflagrations, not Burghers only,
but the vulgar Sort, stood stareing, and with their Hands impocketted,
beheld their Houses gradually consume; and without offering prudent or
charitable Hand to stop the growing Flames.
But after they had almost thus destroy'd that late fair City,
_Villeroy_, finding he could not raise the Siege of _Namur_, by that
vigorous Attack upon _Brussels_, decamp'd at last from before it, and
put his Army on the March, to try if he could have better Success by
exposing to Show his Pageant of one Hundred Thousand Men. Prince
_Vaudemont_ had timely Intelligence of the Duke's Resolution and Motion;
and resolv'd, if possible to get there before him. Nor was the Attempt
fruitless: He fortunately succeeded, though with much Fatigue, and no
little Difficulty, after he had put a Trick upon the Spies of the Enemy,
by pretending to encamp, and so soon as they were gone ordering a full
March.
