About two Months after this, our Regiment, among many others, was,
according to Order, shipp'd off on a Secret Expedition, under the
Command of the Duke of _Leinster_, no Man knowing to what Place we were
going, or on what Design; no, not the Commander himself. However, when
we were out at Sea, the General, according to Instructions, opening his
Commission, we were soon put out of our Suspence, and inform'd, that our
Orders were to attack _Dunkirk_. But what was so grand a Secret to those
concern'd in the Expedition, having been intrusted to a Female
Politician on Land, it was soon discover'd to the Enemy; for which
Reason our Orders were countermanded, before we reach'd the Place of
Action, and our Forces receiv'd Directions to land at _Ostend_.
Soon after this happen'd that memorable Battle at _Steenkirk_, which as
very few at that Time could dive into the Reason of, and mistaken
Accounts of it have pass'd for authentick, I will mention somewhat more
particularly: The Undertaking was bold; and, as many thought, bolder
than was consistent with the Character of the wise Undertaker.
Nevertheless, the _French_ having taken _Namure_; and, as the
Malecontents alledg'd, in the very Sight of a superior Army; and nothing
having been done by Land of any moment, Things were blown into such a
dangerous Fermentation, by a malicious and lying Spirit, that King
_William_ found himself under a Necessity of attempting something that
might appease the Murmurs of the People. He knew very well, though spoke
in the Senate, that it was not true, that his Forces at the Siege of
_Namure_ exceeded those of the Enemy; no Man could be more afflicted
than he at the overflowing of the _Mehaigne_, from the continual Rains,
which obstructed the Relief he had designed for that important Place;
yet since his Maligners made an ill Use of these false Topicks, to
insinuate that he had no Mind to put an End to the War, he was resolv'd
to evince the contrary, by shewing them that he was not afraid to
venture his Life for the better obtaining what was so much desired.
To that Purpose, receiving Intelligence that the Duke of _Luxemburg_ lay
strongly encamp'd at _Steenkirk_, near _Enghien_ (tho' he was sensible
he must pass through many Defiles to engage him; and that the many
Thickets between the two Armies would frequently afford him new
Difficulties) he resolv'd there to attack him. Our Troops at first were
forc'd to hew out their Passage for the Horse; and there was no one
difficulty that his Imagination had drawn that was lessen'd by
Experience; and yet so prosperous were his Arms at the Beginning, that
our Troops had made themselves Masters of several Pieces of the Enemy's
Cannon. But the farther he advanc'd, the Ground growing straiter, so
strait as not to admit his Army's being drawn up in Battalia, the Troops
behind could not give timely Succour to those engag'd, and the Cannon we
had taken was forcibly left behind in order to make a good Retreat. The
_French_ had lost all their Courage in the Onset; for though they had
too fair an Opportunity, they did not think fit to pursue it; or, at
least, did it very languidly. However, the Malecontents at Home, I
remember, grew very well pleas'd after this; for so long as they had but
a Battle for their Money, like true _Englishmen_, lost or won, they were
contented.
