Upon this Retreat the Prince marching back, lay for some time among the
Boors, who from the good Discipline, which he took care to make his
Troops observe, did not give us their customary boorish Reception. And
yet as secure as we might think our selves, I met with a little Passage
that confirm'd in me the Notions, which the generality as well as I, had
imbib'd of the private Barbarity of those People, whenever an
Opportunity falls in their Way. I was stroling at a Distance from my
Quarters, all alone, when I found my self near one of their Houses; into
which, the Doors being open, I ventur'd to enter. I saw no body when I
came in, though the House was, for that Sort of People, well enough
furnish'd, and in pretty decent Order. I call'd, but no body answering,
I had the Curiosity to advance a little farther, when, at the Mouth of
the Oven, which had not yet wholly lost its Heat, I spy'd the Corpse of
a Man so bloated, swoln and parch'd, as left me little room to doubt,
that the Oven had been the Scene of his Destiny. I confess the Sight
struck me with Horror; and as much Courage and Security as I enter'd
with, I withdrew in haste, and with quite different Sentiments, and
could not fansy my self out of Danger till I had reach'd our Camp. A
wise Man should not frame an Accusation on Conjectures; but, on Inquiry,
I was soon made sensible, that such barbarous Usage is too common among
those People; especially if they meet with a Straggler, of what Nation
soever.
This made me not very sorry when we decamp'd, and we soon after receiv'd
Orders to march and invest _Charleroy_; before which Place we stay'd
somewhat above a Week, and then drew off. I remember very well, that I
was not the only Person then in the Camp that was at a Loss to dive into
the Reason of this Investiture and Decampment: But since I at that time,
among the Politicians of the Army, never heard a good one, I shall not
venture to offer my Sentiments at so great a Distance.
We, after this march'd towards _Mons_; and, in our March, pass'd over
the very Grounds on which the Battle of _Seneff_ had been fought three
Years before. It was with no little Pleasure, that I re-survey'd a
Place, that had once been of so much Danger to me; and where my Memory
and Fansy now repeated back all those Observations I had then made under
some unavoidable Confusion. Young as I was, both in Years and
Experience, from my own Reflections, and the Sentiments of others, after
the Fight was over, methought I saw visibly before me the well order'd
Disposition of the Prince of _Conde_; the inexpressible Difficulties
which the Prince of _Orange_ had to encounter with; while at the same
Moment I could not omit to repay my Debt to the Memory of my first
Patron, Sir _Walter Vane_, who there loosing his Life, left me a
solitary Wanderer to the wide World of Fortune.
