"I am indeed," said I, "and thou art for my sake; but to be a whore,
Amy!" and there I stopped.
"Dear madam," says Amy, "if I will starve for your sake, I will be a
whore or anything for your sake; why, I would die for you if I were put
to it."
"Why, that's an excess of affection, Amy," said I, "I never met with
before; I wish I may be ever in condition to make you some returns
suitable. But, however, Amy, you shall not be a whore to him, to oblige
him to be kind to me; no, Amy, nor I won't be a whore to him, if he
would give me much more than he is able to give me or do for me."
"Why, madam," says Amy, "I don't say I will go and ask him; but I say,
if he should promise to do so and so for you, and the condition was such
that he would not serve you unless I would let him lie with me, he
should lie with me as often as he would, rather than you should not have
his assistance. But this is but talk, madam; I don't see any need of
such discourse, and you are of opinion that there will be no need of
it."
"Indeed so I am, Amy; but," said I, "if there was, I tell you again, I'd
die before I would consent, or before you should consent for my sake."
Hitherto I had not only preserved the virtue itself, but the virtuous
inclination and resolution; and had I kept myself there I had been
happy, though I had perished of mere hunger; for, without question, a
woman ought rather to die than to prostitute her virtue and honour, let
the temptation be what it will.
But to return to my story; he walked about the garden, which was,
indeed, all in disorder, and overrun with weeds, because I had not been
able to hire a gardener to do anything to it, no, not so much as to dig
up ground enough to sow a few turnips and carrots for family use. After
he had viewed it, he came in, and sent Amy to fetch a poor man, a
gardener, that used to help our man-servant, and carried him into the
garden, and ordered him to do several things in it, to put it into a
little order; and this took him up near an hour.
By this time I had dressed me as well as I could; for though I had good
linen left still, yet I had but a poor head-dress, and no knots, but old
fragments; no necklace, no earrings; all those things were gone long ago
for mere bread.
However, I was tight and clean, and in better plight than he had seen me
in a great while, and he looked extremely pleased to see me so; for, he
said, I looked so disconsolate and so afflicted before, that it grieved
him to see me; and he bade me pluck up a good heart, for he hoped to put
me in a condition to live in the world, and be beholden to nobody.
