I told him that was impossible, for I must be beholden to him for it,
for all the friends I had in the world would not or could not do so much
for me as that he spoke of "Well, widow," says he (so he called me, and
so indeed I was in the worst sense that desolate word could be used
in), "if you are beholden to me, you shall be beholden to nobody else."
By this time dinner was ready, and Amy came in to lay the cloth, and
indeed it was happy there was none to dine but he and I, for I had but
six plates left in the house, and but two dishes; however, he knew how
things were, and bade me make no scruple about bringing out what I had.
He hoped to see me in a better plight. He did not come, he said, to be
entertained, but to entertain me, and comfort and encourage me. Thus he
went on, speaking so cheerfully to me, and such cheerful things, that it
was a cordial to my very soul to hear him speak.
Well, we went to dinner. I'm sure I had not ate a good meal hardly in a
twelvemonth, at least not of such a joint of meat as the loin of veal
was. I ate, indeed, very heartily, and so did he, and he made me drink
three or four glasses of wine; so that, in short, my spirits were lifted
up to a degree I had not been used to, and I was not only cheerful, but
merry; and so he pressed me to be.
I told him I had a great deal of reason to be merry, seeing he had been
so kind to me, and had given me hopes of recovering me from the worst
circumstances that ever woman of any sort of fortune was sunk into; that
he could not but believe that what he had said to me was like life from
the dead; that it was like recovering one sick from the brink of the
grave; how I should ever make him a return any way suitable was what I
had not yet had time to think of; I could only say that I should never
forget it while I had life, and should be always ready to acknowledge
it.
He said that was all he desired of me; that his reward would be the
satisfaction of having rescued me from misery; that he found he was
obliging one that knew what gratitude meant; that he would make it his
business to make me completely easy, first or last, if it lay in his
power; and in the meantime he bade me consider of anything that I
thought he might do for me, for my advantage, and in order to make me
perfectly easy.
After we had talked thus, he bade me be cheerful. "Come," says he, "lay
aside these melancholy things, and let us be merry." Amy waited at the
table, and she smiled and laughed, and was so merry she could hardly
contain it, for the girl loved me to an excess hardly to be described;
and it was such an unexpected thing to hear any one talk to her
mistress, that the wench was beside herself almost, and, as soon as
dinner was over, Amy went upstairs, and put on her best clothes too, and
came down dressed like a gentlewoman.
