Then I begged I might have my clothes on shore with me. He told me he
was afraid I should have little need of clothes, for he did not see how
we could long subsist on the island, and that he had been told that the
inhabitants were cannibals or men-eaters (though he had no reason for
that suggestion), and we should not be able to live among them. I
told him I was not so afraid of that as I was of starving for want of
victuals; and as for the inhabitants being cannibals, I believed we
should be more likely to eat them than they us, if we could but get at
them. But I was mightily concerned, I said, we should have no weapons
with us to defend ourselves, and I begged nothing now, but that he would
give me a gun and a sword, with a little powder and shot.
He smiled, and said they would signify nothing to us, for it was
impossible for us to pretend to preserve our lives among such a populous
and desperate nation as the people of this island were. I told him that,
however, it would do us this good, for we should not be devoured or
destroyed immediately; so I begged hard for the gun. At last he told me
he did not know whether the captain would give him leave to give me a
gun, and if not, he durst not do it; but he promised to use his interest
to obtain it for me, which he did, and the next day he sent me a gun,
with some ammunition, but told me the captain would not suffer the
ammunition to be given us till we were set all on shore, and till he
was just going to set sail. He also sent me the few clothes I had in the
ship, which indeed were not many.
Two days after this, we were all carried on shore together; the rest
of my fellow-criminals hearing I had a gun, and some powder and shot,
solicited for liberty to carry the like with them, which was also
granted them; and thus we were set on shore to shift for ourselves.
At our first coming into the island we were terrified exceedingly with
the sight of the barbarous people, whose figure was made more terrible
to us than it really was by the report we had of them from the seamen;
but when we came to converse with them awhile, we found they were not
cannibals, as was reported, or such as would fall immediately upon us
and eat us up; but they came and sat down by us, and wondered much at
our clothes and arms, and made signs to give us some victuals, such as
they had, which was only roots and plants dug out of the ground for the
present, but they brought us fowls and flesh afterwards in good plenty.
This encouraged the other four men that were with me very much, for they
were quite dejected before; but now they began to be very familiar with
them, and made signs, that if they would use us kindly, we would stay
and live with them; which they seemed glad of, though they knew little
of the necessity we were under to do so, or how much we were afraid of
them.
