Taking it then as the generality of mankind do, that there is a Grand
Devil, a superior of the whole black race; that they all fell, together
with their General, _Satan_, at the head of them; that tho' he, _Satan_,
could not maintain his high station in Heaven, yet that he did continue
his dignity among the rest, who are call'd his servants, _in Scripture
his Angels_; that he has a kind of dominion or authority over the rest,
and that they were all, how many millions soever in number, at his
command; employ'd by him in all his hellish designs, and in all his
wicked contrivances for the destruction of man, and for the setting up
his own kingdom in the world.
Supposing then that there is such a superior Master-Devil over all the
rest, it remains that we enquire into his character, and something of
his History; in which, tho' we cannot perhaps produce such authentick
documents as in the story of other great Monarchs, Tyrants, and Furies
of the World; yet I shall endeavour to speak some things which the
experience of mankind may be apt to confirm, and which the Devil himself
will hardly be able to contradict.
It being then granted that there is such a thing or person, call him
which we will, as a Master-Devil; that he is thus superior to all the
rest in power and in authority, and that all the other evil Spirits are
his Angels, or Ministers, or Officers to execute his commands, and are
employ'd in his business; it remains to enquire, whence he came? how he
got hither, into this World? what that business is which he is employ'd
about? what his present state is, and where and to what part of the
creation of God he is limited and restrained? what the liberties are he
takes or is allow'd to take? in what manner he works, and how his
instruments are likewise allow'd to work? what he has done ever since he
commenc'd Devil, what he is now doing, and what he may yet do before his
last and closer confinement? as also what he cannot do, and how far we
may or may not be said to be exposed to him, or have or have not reason
to be afraid of him? These, and whatever else occurs in the History and
conduct of this Arch-devil and his Agents, that may be useful for
information, caution, or diversion, you may expect in the process of
this work.
I know it has been question'd by some, with more face than fear, how it
consists with a compleat victory of the Devil, which they say was at
first obtained by the Heavenly Powers over _Satan_ and his apostate army
in _Heaven_, that when he was cast out of his holy place, and dash'd
down into the abyss of eternal darkness, as into a place of punishment,
a condemn'd hold, or place of confinement, to be reserved there to the
judgment of the great Day; _I say_, how it consists with that entire
victory, to let him loose again, and give him liberty, like a thief that
has broken prison, to range about God's creation, and there to continue
his rebellion, commit new ravages, and acts of hostility against God,
make new efforts at dethroning the almighty Creator; and in particular
to fall upon the weakest of his creatures, MAN? how _Satan_ being so
entirely vanquish'd, he should be permitted to recover any of his wicked
powers, and find room to do mischief to mankind.
