We sailed merrily forward for several days, meeting with nothing to
interrupt us. We saw several of the natives in small canoes catching
fish, and sometimes we endeavoured to come near enough to speak with
them, but they were always shy and afraid of us, making in for the
shore as soon as we attempted it; till one of our company remembered the
signal of friendship which the natives made us from the south part of
the island, viz., of setting up a long pole, and put us in mind that
perhaps it was the same thing to them as a flag of truce to us. So we
resolved to try it; and accordingly the next time we saw any of their
fishing-boats at sea we put up a pole in our canoe that had no sail, and
rowed towards them. As soon as they saw the pole they stayed for us, and
as we came nearer paddled towards us; when they came to us they showed
themselves very much pleased, and gave us some large fish, of which we
did not know the names, but they were very good. It was our misfortune
still that we had nothing to give them in return; but our artist, of
whom I spoke before, gave them two little thin plates of silver, beaten,
as I said before, out of a piece of eight; they were cut in a diamond
square, longer one way than the other, and a hole punched at one of the
longest corners. This they were so fond of that they made us stay till
they had cast their lines and nets again, and gave us as many fish as we
cared to have.
All this while we had our eyes upon their boats, viewed them very
narrowly, and examined whether any of them were fit for our turn, but
they were poor, sorry things; their sail was made of a large mat, only
one that was of a piece of cotton stuff fit for little, and their ropes
were twisted flags of no strength; so we concluded we were better as
we were, and let them alone. We went forward to the north, keeping the
coast close on board for twelve days together, and having the wind at
east and E.S.E., we made very fresh way. We saw no towns on the shore,
but often saw some huts by the water-side upon the rocks, and always
abundance of people about them, who we could perceive run together to
stare at us.
It was as odd a voyage as ever man went; we were a little fleet of three
ships, and an army of between twenty and thirty as dangerous fellows as
ever they had amongst them; and had they known what we were, they would
have compounded to give us everything we desired to be rid of us.
On the other hand, we were as miserable as nature could well make us to
be, for we were upon a voyage and no voyage, we were bound somewhere and
nowhere; for though we knew what we intended to do, we did really not
know what we were doing. We went forward and forward by a northerly
course, and as we advanced the heat increased, which began to be
intolerable to us, who were on the water, without any covering from heat
or wet; besides, we were now in the month of October, or thereabouts,
in a southern latitude; and as we went every day nearer the sun, the sun
came also every day nearer to us, till at last we found ourselves in the
latitude of 20 degrees; and having passed the tropic about five or six
days before that, in a few days more the sun would be in the zenith,
just over our heads.
