But to return to the Prize, being now as certain of the smaller Prize as
that we had miss'd the great one, we began to examine what we had got; and
it is not easy to give an exact Account of the prodigious Variety of Things
we found: In the first Place, were 116 Chests of Pieces of Eight in Specie,
72 Bars of Silver, 15 Bags of wrought Plate, which a Fryer that was on
Board would have perswaded us, for the Sake of the Blessed Virgin, to have
return'd, being, as he said, consecrated Plate to the Honour of the holy
Church, the Virgin _Mary_, and St. _Martin_; but, as it happen'd, he could
not perswade us to it; also we found about 60000 Ounces of Gold, some in
little Wedges, some in Dust. We found several other Things of Value, but
not to be nam'd with the rest.
Being thus made surprisingly rich, we began to think what Course we should
steer next; for as the great Ship, which was escap'd, would certainly alarm
the Country, we might be sure we should meet with no more Purchase at Sea,
and we were not very fond of landing, to attack any Town on Shore. In this
Consultation 'tis to be observ'd, that I was, by the unanimous Consent of
all the Crew, made Captain of the great Ship, and of the whole Crew; the
whole Voyage hither, and every Part of it, having, for some Time before,
been chiefly manag'd by my Direction, or at least by my Advice.
The first Thing I propos'd to them all, was, seeing we had met with such
good Luck, and that we could not expect much more, and if we stay'd longer
in these Seas, should find it very hard to revictual our Ships, and might
have our Retreat cut off by _Spanish_ Men of war; (five of which we heard
were sent out after the other Buccaneers) we should make the best of our
Way to the South, and get about into the North Seas, where we were out of
all Danger.
In Consequence of this Advice, which was generally approv'd, we stood away
directly South; and the Wind blowing pretty fair at N. N. E. a merry Gale,
we stood directly for the Isle of _Juan Fernando_, carrying our rich Prize
with us.
We arriv'd here the Beginning of _June_, having been just six Months in
those Seas. We were surpriz'd, when coming to the Island, we found two
Ships at an Anchor close under the Lee of the Rocks, and two little
Periaguas farther in, near the Shore; but being resolv'd to see what they
were, we found, to our Satisfaction, they were the Buccaneers of whom I
have spoken above: The Story is too long to enter upon here; but in short,
without Guns, without Ship, and only coming over Land with their Fusees in
their Hands, they had rang'd these Seas, had taken several Prizes, and some
pretty rich, and had got two pretty handsome Barks, one carry'd six Guns,
and the other four; they had shar'd, as they told us, about 400 Pieces of
Eight a Man, besides one Thing they had which we were willing to buy of
them; they had about 100 Jarrs of Gunpowder, which they took out of a Store
Ship going to _Lima_.
