I can say nothing here to the manner of our voyage, for, as I said, I
kept no journal; but this I can give an account of, that having been
once as high as the Cape of Good Hope, as we call it, or Cabo de Bona
Speranza, as they call it, we were driven back again by a violent storm
from the W.S.W., which held us six days and nights a great way to the
eastward, and after that, standing afore the wind for several days more,
we at last came to an anchor on the coast of Madagascar.
The storm had been so violent that the ship had received a great deal of
damage, and it required some time to repair her; so, standing in nearer
the shore, the pilot, my master, brought the ship into a very good
harbour, where we rid in twenty-six fathoms water, about half a mile
from the shore.
While the ship rode here there happened a most desperate mutiny among
the men, upon account of some deficiency in their allowance, which came
to that height that they threatened the captain to set him on shore, and
go back with the ship to Goa. I wished they would with all my heart,
for I was full of mischief in my head, and ready enough to do any. So,
though I was but a boy, as they called me, yet I prompted the mischief
all I could, and embarked in it so openly, that I escaped very little
being hanged in the first and most early part of my life; for the
captain had some notice that there was a design laid by some of the
company to murder him; and having, partly by money and promises, and
partly by threatening and torture, brought two fellows to confess the
particulars, and the names of the persons concerned, they were presently
apprehended, till, one accusing another, no less than sixteen men were
seized and put into irons, whereof I was one.
The captain, who was made desperate by his danger, resolving to clear
the ship of his enemies, tried us all, and we were all condemned to die.
The manner of his process I was too young to take notice of; but the
purser and one of the gunners were hanged immediately, and I expected it
with the rest. I do not remember any great concern I was under about it,
only that I cried very much, for I knew little then of this world, and
nothing at all of the next.
However, the captain contented himself with executing these two, and
some of the rest, upon their humble submission and promise of future
good behaviour, were pardoned; but five were ordered to be set on shore
on the island and left there, of which I was one. My master used all his
interest with the captain to have me excused, but could not obtain it;
for somebody having told him that I was one of them who was singled out
to have killed him, when my master desired I might not be set on shore,
the captain told him I should stay on board if he desired it, but then
I should be hanged, so he might choose for me which he thought best. The
captain, it seems, was particularly provoked at my being concerned in
the treachery, because of his having been so kind to me, and of his
having singled me out to serve him, as I have said above; and this,
perhaps, obliged him to give my master such a rough choice, either
to set me on shore or to have me hanged on board. And had my master,
indeed, known what good-will I had for him, he would not have been long
in choosing for me; for I had certainly determined to do him a mischief
the first opportunity I had for it. This was, therefore, a good
providence for me to keep me from dipping my hands in blood, and it made
me more tender afterwards in matters of blood than I believe I should
otherwise have been. But as to my being one of them that was to kill
the captain, that I was wronged in, for I was not the person, but it was
really one of them that were pardoned, he having the good luck not to
have that part discovered.
