There we saw Partition Treaties damned, and the whole given away,
Confederations without Allies, Allies without Quota's, Princes
without Armies, Armies without Men, and Men without Money, Crowns
without Kings, Kings without Subjects, more Kings than Countries, and
more Countries than were worth fighting for.
Here we could see the King of France upbraiding his Neighbours with
dishonourably assisting his Rebels, though the Mischief was, they did
it not neither; and in the same Breath, assisting the Hungarian
Rebels against the Emperor; M. Ld N. refusing so dishonourable an
Action, as to aid the Rebellious Camisars, but Leaguing with the
Admirant de Castile, to Invade the Dominions of his Master to whom he
swore Allegiance: Here we saw Protestants fight against Protestants,
to help Papists, Papists against Papists to help Protestants,
Protestants call in Turks, to keep Faith against Christians that
break it: Here we could see Swedes fighting for Revenge, and call it
Religion; Cardinals deposing their Catholick Prince, to introduce the
Tyranny of a Lutheran and call it Liberty; Armies Electing Kings, and
call it Free Choice; French conquering Savoy, to secure the Liberty
of Italy.
3. The Map of State Policy contains abundance of Civil Transactions,
no where to be discover'd but in this wonderful Country, and by this
prodigious Invention: As first, it shows an Eminent Prelate running
in every body's Debt to relieve the Poor, and bring to God Robbery
for Burnt-Offering: It opens a Door to the Fate of Nations; and there
we might see the Duke of S--y bought three times, and his subjects
sold every time; Portugal bought twice, and neither time worth the
Earnest; Spain bought once, but loth to go with the Bidder; Venice
willing to be Bought, if there had been any Buyers; Bavaria Bought,
and run away with the Money; the Emperor Bought and Sold, but Bilkt
the Chapman; the French buying Kingdoms he can't keep, the Dutch keep
Kingdoms they never Bought; and the English paying their Money
without Purchase.
In Matters of Civil Concerns, here was to be seen Religion with no
out-side, and much Out-side with no Religion, much Strife about
Peace, and no Peace in the Design: Here was Plunder without Violence,
Violence without Persecution, Conscience without Good Works, and Good
Works without Charity; Parties cutting one anothers Throats for God's
Sake, pulling down Churches de propoganda fide, and making Divisions
by way of Association.
Here we have Peace and Union brought to pass The Shortest Way,
Extirpation and Destruction prov'd to be the Road to Plenty and
Pleasure: Here all the Wise Nations, a Learned Author would have
Quoted, if he could have found them, are to be seen, who carry on
Exclusive Laws to the general Safety and Satisfaction of their
Subjects.
Occasional Bills may have here a particular Historical, Categorical
Description: But of them by themselves.
Here you might have the Rise, Original, Lawfulness, Usefulness, and
Necessity of Passive Obedience, as fairly represented as a System of
Divinity, and as clearly demonstrated as by a Geographical
Description; and which exceeds our mean Understanding here, 'tis by
the wonderful Assistance of these Glasses, plainly discerned to be
Coherent with Resistance, taking Arms, calling in Foreign Powers, and
the like. --- Here you have a plain Discovery of C. of E. Politicks,
and a Map of Loyalty: Here 'tis as plainly demonstrated as the Nose
in a Man's Face, provided he has one, that a Man may Abdicate, drive
away, and Dethrone his Prince, and yet be absolutely and intirely
free from, and innocent of the least Fracture, Breach, Incroachment,
or Intrenchment, upon the Doctrine of Non-Resistance: Can shoot at
his Prince without any Design to kill him, fight against him without
raising Rebellion, and take up Arms, without leaving War against his
Prince.
