The ships of the Greeks lay in the bays of Aulis while the warriors
waited impatiently to set sail. But the winds were contrary; they
would not blow, and the boats waited there year after year; for a
sacred hind had been slain by Agamemnon, one that belonged to the
goddess Artemis, and it was ordered by that goddess that no wind should
arise to take them on toward Troy until her wrath had been appeased.
So Agamemnon went to Calchas, the seer, and asked his advice,
whereupon the old prophet told him to send for his lovely young
daughter, Iphigeneia, and offer her up on the altar as the only
acceptable sacrifice to Artemis. When he had placed her upon the altar
and the priest was raising his knife, the goddess took pity on
Agamemnon and carried the girl away in a cloud, leaving a fine white
doe instead.
[Illustration: ODYSSEUS AND MENELAOS PERSUADING AGAMEMNON TO
SACRIFICE IPHIGENEIA]
And now arose a favorable wind, and the Greeks arrived safely before
Troy. How they fought with the Trojans, how many of the heroes outlived
the struggle, and how many fell in the battle, all this we can learn
from an old book called the "Iliad." We shall select from it only
those things which refer to our hero, Odysseus; and to complete the
history of that hero we shall go to another book, called the "Odyssey."
Both of these books are the work of the great poet Homer, who lived
many years after the war with Troy. That we may understand better
what happened later on, we must give a short account of the fall of
Troy and of the return of Menelaos and Agamemnon to their own country.
CHAPTER IV
THE FALL OF TROY
The war lasted nine years, and in the tenth the Greeks conquered Troy,
not in battle, but by means of a trick which had come into the mind
of Odysseus. He told a skilful carpenter to build a wooden horse of
gigantic size, and in it he hid the bravest Greek warriors. When he
had done this he advised all the other Greeks to depart without leaving
anything behind them, and so lead the Trojans to believe that they
had given up the fight and gone home.
So the Greeks burned their tents and put off to sea, while the Trojans
from their walls watched them with great joy, thinking themselves
well rid of an enemy. When the last ship had gone, the Trojans threw
open the gates of their city and rushed down into the plain where
the Greeks had had their camp, to see how the place looked.
There they found the wooden horse, and one of the Greeks tied to a
tree, who told them he was left there as a punishment, and that the
wooden horse was an offering to the gods. The Trojans made up their
minds to carry it into their city and give it the best place on their
highest hill.
