There was another young prince whom it was absolutely necessary to
secure, for a much venerated oracle had given it as a decree of the
gods that Troy could never be taken without his help. This was Achilles,
son of Peleus, king of the Myrmidons in Thessaly, and of the beauteous
ocean nymph, Thetis. Notwithstanding his extreme youth, his father
would not disappoint the whole country, and he let him go with those
who came for him. But he sent along with him his adopted son, Patroklos,
who was several years older, and to whom the boy was passionately
attached, and also his oldest and most trusted servant, Phoenix. These
two, the old man and the youth, he charged, as they hoped for the
mercy of Zeus, to keep watchful guard over Achilles, whose exceedingly
impetuous and reckless temper exposed him to many dangers which might
be averted by a sensible and loving word spoken in time.
[Illustration: THE SILVER-FOOTED THETIS RISING FROM THE WAVES]
The Greeks took counsel together, and it was resolved that Menelaos
should go in person to Troy and demand back his wife, Helen, as well
as his treasure and a suitable apology for the wrong done to him and
to all Hellas. He chose for his companion the cunning Odysseus. On
their arrival in Troy, Menelaos and Odysseus presented themselves
before Priam and demanded the return of Helen and the treasures.
The king at once called his people together to deliberate upon the
matter, and the two Greek kings bravely denounced the mean act of
Paris. But the Trojans, stirred up by that youth, abused the
ambassadors and drove them out of their city.
CHAPTER III
THE GREEKS SAIL FOR TROY
The kings and chieftains of Hellas, having heard that Odysseus and
Menelaos had been driven out of Troy, hastened to call together their
fleets and armies at Aulis, a city of Boeotia on a ridge of rock running
out into the sea between two little bays, each of which was a harbor
for many ships. A hundred thousand men and a thousand ships were
gathered there under the leadership of the celebrated and heroic
chiefs. The commander-in-chief of the whole army was Agamemnon.
Among the renowned leaders were Menelaos, the sagacious Odysseus,
Ajax, and many others. Just as they were offering a sacrifice to the
gods, in order to start out to the war with their good will, a great
miracle happened. A fearful snake crept from under the altar and
climbed a tree in which there was a sparrow's nest nearly hidden by
the leaves. There were eight young sparrows in the nest, nine birds
with the mother. The snake devoured the fluttering little birds,
around which the mother circled as if overcome by grief.
Then the snake darted at the mother-bird and swallowed it, when Zeus
changed the reptile into a stone. The Greeks wondered at the sight,
but the soothsayer, Calchas, said to them: "Why do ye wonder at this?
The all-powerful Zeus has sent us this sign because our deeds shall
live forever in the minds of men. Just as the snake has devoured the
eight little sparrows and their mother, so shall the war swallow up
the nine coming years, and in the tenth we shall overcome Troy."
