"One duty my daughter left undone," Alkinoos said. "She should have
brought thee home with her." "Do not blame her, I entreat," replied
Odysseus, "for she bade me come with her maids, but I lingered in
a grove to offer a prayer to Athena." When Alkinoos had heard this
tale from Odysseus, he promised once more to give him a ship and
sailors to escort him home.
Meanwhile the queen bade her servants prepare a bed for the hero out
on the portico, and they covered a couch with shaggy rugs and purple
tapestries, where he could rest. With a grateful heart Odysseus arose,
and, thanking the king for his generous hospitality, sought the bed,
where he gave himself to happy dreams.
Odysseus rose early the next morning and went with Alkinoos to the
market-place, close to the sea, where all the Phaeacians had assembled.
The people gazed with admiration at their stranger-guest, for Athena
lent him greater dignity and beauty, and she went among the crowds,
moving their hearts to sympathy with him.
Alkinoos then addressed the assembled multitude: "Hear me, ye chiefs
of the Phaeacians," he said. "This stranger has come to our land after
many wanderings and adventures. And he asks me to send him back to
his own country. Let us fit out a ship for him quickly and launch
it, and give him fifty-two young men from among our best sailors,
who shall get everything ready for the long journey.
"While they are doing this the stranger shall come to my halls with
the chiefs and princes, where we will make a great banquet. Summon
also the bard, Demodokos, that he may enliven the festival with his
harp and songs."
Having spoken, Alkinoos rose and led his guest back to the palace,
the princes following him. Fifty-two youths were soon chosen from
among the best seamen, and they launched a ship speedily and went
up to the royal palace.
CHAPTER XI
THE BANQUET IN HONOR OF ODYSSEUS
Alkinoos now ordered a sumptuous feast in honor of his guest. When
the table was spread, the herald who had gone for Demodokos came in
leading the bard, who was blind. The gods had deprived him of sight,
but had bestowed upon him the gift of song. They gave him a seat on
a silver throne, amid the guests, and hung his harp against a lofty
pillar, close above his head, where he could easily reach it.
When all had eaten and drunk as much as they desired, Demodokos took
his lyre and began to sing about the heroes of Troy. It was a song
whose fame had reached over the whole world, the story of a friendly
strife between Achilles and Odysseus before Troy, in which Achilles
held that Troy would fall by force, but Odysseus maintained that it
would come to an end through the cunning of a few brave Greeks.
All the guests enjoyed listening to the thrilling song, but Odysseus
was deeply touched, and tears fell from his eyes. He brushed them
away stealthily, so that no one should observe them, and drew a large
purple veil over his face until the song was finished, when he put
it away and took a goblet of wine, which he poured out on the ground
as a libation to the gods.
