   [Footnote 54: On the Paean, see Mueller, Gk. Lit. iii. Sec. 4. and
   Dorians, vol. i. p. 370.]
   [Footnote 55: See Loewe on Odyss. ii. 1, and my translation.
   Kennedy renders it "ushering in the dawn."]
   [Footnote 56: See Buttm. p. 484. I am partly indebted to Anthon
   in rendering this expression.]
But the Jove-sprung son of Peleus, swift-footed Achilles, continued his
wrath, sitting at his swift ships, nor ever did he frequent the assembly
of noble heroes, nor the fight, but he pined away his dear heart,
remaining there, although he longed for the din and the battle.
Now when the twelfth morning from that time arose,[57] then indeed all
the gods who are for ever went together to Olympus, but Jupiter
preceded. But Thetis was not forgetful of the charges of her son, but
she emerged from the wave of the sea, and at dawn ascended lofty heaven
and Olympus;[58] and she found the far-seeing son of Saturn sitting
apart from the others, on the highest summit of many-peaked Olympus, and
then she sat down before him, and embraced his knees with her left hand,
but with the right taking him by the chin, imploring, she thus addressed
king Jove, the son of Saturn:
"O father Jove, if ever I have aided thee among the immortals, either in
word or deed, accomplish for me this desire: honour my son, who is the
most short-lived of others; for now indeed Agamemnon, the king of men,
has disgraced him; for he possesses his prize, he himself having borne
it away. Do thou at least, Olympian Jove all counselling, honour him:
and so long grant victory to the Trojans, until the Greeks shall
reverence my son, and shall advance him in honour."
   [Footnote 57: Cf. ver. 425.]
   [Footnote 58: [Greek: Ouranos] is here the upper clear region of
   air,--the ether, into which Olympus soared up.--Voss.]
Thus she spoke; but cloud-compelling Jove answered her nothing, but sat
silent for a long time. And as Thetis seized his knees, fast clinging
she held them, and thus again entreated: "Do but now promise to me
explicitly, and grant or refuse, (for in thee there is no dread,) that I
may well know how far I am the most dishonoured goddess amongst all."
But her cloud-compelling Jove, deeply moved, addressed: "Truly now this
[will be] a grievous matter, since thou wilt cause me to give offence to
Juno, when she shall irritate me with reproachful words. For, even
without reason, she is perpetually chiding me amongst the immortal gods,
and also says that I aid the Trojans in battle. But do thou on thy part
now depart, lest Juno behold thee: but these things shall be my care,
until I perform them. But if [thou wilt have it thus], so be it; I will
nod to thee with my head, that thou mayest feel confidence. For this
from me is the greatest pledge among the immortals: for my pledge, even
whatsoever I shall sanction by nod, is not to be retracted, neither
fallacious nor unfulfilled."
