On the whole, I am inclined to believe, that the labours of
Peisistratus were wholly of an editorial character, although I must
confess that I can lay down nothing respecting the extent of his
labours. At the same time, so far from believing that the composition
or primary arrangement of these poems, in their present form, was the
work of Peisistratus, I am rather persuaded that the fine taste and
elegant, mind of that Athenian would lead him to preserve an ancient
and traditional order of the poems, rather than to patch and
reconstruct them according to a fanciful hypothesis. I will not
repeat the many discussions respecting whether the poems were written
or not, or whether the art of writing was known in the time of their
reputed author. Suffice it to say, that the more we read, the less
satisfied we are upon either subject.
I cannot, however, help thinking, that the story which attributes the
preservation of these poems to Lycurgus, is little else than a
version of the same story as that of Peisistratus, while its
historical probability must be measured by that of many others
relating to the Spartan Confucius.
I will conclude this sketch of the Homeric theories with an attempt,
made by an ingenious friend, to unite them into something like
consistency. It is as follows:--
"No doubt the common soldiers of that age had, like the common
sailors of some fifty years ago, some one qualified to 'discourse in
excellent music' among them. Many of these, like those of the negroes
in the United States, were extemporaneous, and allusive to events
passing around them. But what was passing around them? The grand
events of a spirit-stirring war; occurrences likely to impress
themselves, as the mystical legends of former times had done, upon
their memory; besides which, a retentive memory was deemed a virtue
of the first water, and was cultivated accordingly in those ancient
times. Ballads at first, and down to the beginning of the war with
Troy, were merely recitations, with an intonation. Then followed a
species of recitative, probably with an intoned burden. Tune next
followed, as it aided the memory considerably.
"It was at this period, about four hundred years after the war, that
a poet flourished of the name of Melesigenes, or Moeonides, but most
probably the former. He saw that these ballads might be made of great
utility to his purpose of writing a poem on the social position of
Hellas, and, as a collection, he published these lays connecting them
by a tale of his own. This poem now exists, under the title of the
'Odyssea.' The author, however, did not affix his own name to the
poem, which, in fact, was, great part of it, remodelled from the
archaic dialect of Crete, in which tongue the ballads were found by
him. He therefore called it the poem of Homeros, or the Collector;
but this is rather a proof of his modesty and talent, than of his
mere drudging arrangement of other people's ideas; for, as Grote has
finely observed, arguing for the unity of authorship, 'a great poet
might have re-cast pre-existing separate songs into one comprehensive
whole; but no mere arrangers or compilers would be competent to do
so.'
