"While employed on the wild legend of Odysseus, he met with a ballad,
recording the quarrel of Achilles and Agamemnon. His noble mind
seized the hint that there presented itself, and the Achilleis grew
under his hand. Unity of design, however, caused him to publish the
poem under the same pseudonyme as his former work; and the disjointed
lays of the ancient bards were joined together, like those relating
to the Cid, into a chronicle history, named the Iliad. Melesigenes
knew that the poem was destined to be a lasting one, and so it has
proved; but, first, the poems were destined to undergo many
vicissitudes and corruptions, by the people who took to singing them
in the streets, assemblies, and agoras.  However, Solon first, and
then Peisistratus, and afterwards Aristoteles and others, revised the
poems, and restored the works of Melesigenes Homeros to their
original integrity in a great measure."
Having thus given some general notion of the strange theories which
have developed themselves respecting this most interesting subject, I
must still express my conviction as to the unity of the authorship of
the Homeric poems. To deny that many corruptions and interpolations
disfigure them, and that the intrusive hand of the poetasters may
here and there have inflicted a wound more serious than the
negligence of the copyist, would be an absurd and captious
assumption; but it is to a higher criticism that we must appeal, if
we would either understand or enjoy these poems. In maintaining the
authenticity and personality of their one author, be he Homer or
Melesigenes, /quocunque nomine vocari eum jus fasque sit/, I feel
conscious that, while the whole weight of historical evidence is
against the hypothesis which would assign these great works to a
plurality of authors, the most powerful internal evidence, and that
which springs from the deepest and most immediate impulse of the
soul, also speaks eloquently to the contrary.
The minutiae of verbal criticism I am far from seeking to despise.
Indeed, considering the character of some of my own books, such an
attempt would be gross inconsistency. But, while I appreciate its
importance in a philological view, I am inclined to set little store
on its aesthetic value, especially in poetry. Three parts of the
emendations made upon poets are mere alterations, some of which, had
they been suggested to the author by his Maecenas or Africanus, he
would probably have adopted. Moreover, those who are most exact in
laying down rules of verbal criticism and interpretation, are often
least competent to carry out their own precepts. Grammarians are not
poets by profession, but may be so per accidens. I do not at this
moment remember two emendations on Homer, calculated to substantially
improve the poetry of a passage, although a mass of remarks, from
Herodotus down to Loewe, have given us the history of a thousand
minute points, without which our Greek knowledge would be gloomy and
jejune.
But it is not on words only that grammarians, mere grammarians, will
exercise their elaborate and often tiresome ingenuity. Binding down
an heroic or dramatic poet to the block upon which they have
previously dissected his words and sentences, they proceed to use the
axe and the pruning knife by wholesale; and, inconsistent in
everything but their wish to make out a case of unlawful affiliation,
they cut out book after book, passage after passage, till the author
is reduced to a collection of fragments, or till those who fancied
they possessed the works of some great man, find that they have been
put off with a vile counterfeit got up at second hand. If we compare
the theories of Knight, Wolf, Lachmann; and others, we shall feel
better satisfied of the utter uncertainty of criticism than of the
apocryphal position of Homer. One rejects what another considers the
turning-point of his theory. One cuts a supposed knot by expunging
what another would explain by omitting something else.
