Nor is this morbid species of sagacity by any means to be looked upon
as a literary novelty. Justus Lipsius, a scholar of no ordinary
skill, seems to revel in the imaginary discovery, that the tragedies
attributed to Seneca are by four different authors. Now, I will
venture to assert, that these tragedies are so uniform, not only in
their borrowed phraseology--a phraseology with which writers like
Boethius and Saxo Grammaticus were more charmed than ourselves--in
their freedom from real poetry, and last, but not least, in an
ultra-refined and consistent abandonment of good taste, that few
writers of the present day would question the capabilities of the
same gentleman, be he Seneca or not, to produce not only these, but a
great many more equally bad. With equal sagacity, Father Hardouin
astonished the world with the startling announcement that the AEneid
of Virgil, and the satires of Horace, were literary deceptions. Now,
without wishing to say one word of disrespect against the industry
and learning--nay, the refined acuteness--which scholars like Wolf
have bestowed upon this subject, I must express my fears, that many
of our modern Homeric theories will become matter for the surprise
and entertainment, rather than the instruction, of posterity. Nor can
I help thinking that the literary history of more recent times will
account for many points of difficulty in the transmission of the
Iliad and Odyssey to a period so remote from that of their first
creation.
I have already expressed my belief that the labours of Peisistratus
were of a purely editorial character; and there seems no more reason
why corrupt and imperfect editions of Homer may not have been abroad
in his day, than that the poems of Valerius Flaccus and Tibullus
should have given so much trouble to Poggio, Scaliger, and others.
But, after all, the main fault in all the Homeric theories is, that
they demand too great a sacrifice of those feelings to which poetry
most powerfully appeals, and which are its most fitting judges. The
ingenuity which has sought to rob us of the name and existence of
Homer, does too much violence to that inward emotion, which makes our
whole soul yearn with love and admiration for the blind bard of
Chios. To believe the author of the Iliad a mere compiler, is to
degrade the powers of human invention; to elevate analytical judgment
at the expense of the most ennobling impulses of the soul; and to
forget the ocean in the contemplation of a polypus. There is a
catholicity, so to speak, in the very name of Homer. Our faith in the
author of the Iliad may be a mistaken one, but as yet nobody has
taught us a better.
While, however, I look upon the belief in Homer as one that has
nature herself for its mainspring; while I can join with old Ennius
in believing in Homer as the ghost, who, like some patron saint,
hovers round the bed of the poet, and even bestows rare gifts from
that wealth of imagination which a host of imitators could not
exhaust,--still I am far from wishing to deny that the author of
these great poems found a rich fund of tradition, a well-stocked
mythical storehouse, from whence he might derive both subject and
embellishment. But it is one thing to use existing romances in the
embellishment of a poem, another to patch up the poem itself from
such materials. What consistency of style and execution can be hoped
for from such an attempt? or, rather, what bad taste and tedium will
not be the infallible result?
