To return to the Wolfian theory. While it is to be confessed, that
Wolf's objections to the primitive integrity of the Iliad and Odyssey
have never been wholly got over, we cannot help discovering that they
have failed to enlighten us as to any substantial point, and that the
difficulties with which the whole subject is beset, are rather
augmented than otherwise, if we admit his hypothesis. Nor is
Lachmann's modification of his theory any better. He divides the
first twenty-two books of the Iliad into sixteen different songs, and
treats as ridiculous the belief that their amalgamation into one
regular poem belongs to a period earlier than the age of
Peisistratus. This as Grote observes, "ex-plains the gaps and
contradictions in the narrative, but it explains nothing else."
Moreover, we find no contradictions warranting this belief, and the
so-called sixteen poets concur in getting rid of the following
leading men in the first battle after the secession of Achilles:
Elphenor, chief of the Euboeans; Tlepolemus, of the Rhodians;
Pandarus, of the Lycians; Odins, of the Halizonians:  Pirous and
Acamas, of the Thracians. None of these heroes again make their
appearance, and we can but agree with Colonel Mure, that "it seems
strange that any number of independent poets should have so
harmoniously dispensed with the services of all six in the sequel."
The discrepancy, by which Pylaemenes, who is represented as dead in
the fifth book, weeps at his son's funeral in the thirteenth, can
only be regarded as the result of an interpolation.
Grote, although not very distinct in stating his own opinions on the
subject, has done much to clearly show the incongruity of the Wolfian
theory, and of Lachmann's modifications, with the character of
Peisistratus. But he has also shown, and we think with equal success,
that the two questions relative to the primitive unity of these
poems, or, supposing that impossible, the unison of these parts by
Peisistratus, and not before his time, are essentially distinct. In
short, "a man may believe the Iliad to have been put together out of
pre-existing songs, without recognising the age of Peisistratus as
the period of its first compilation." The friends or literary
/employes/ of Peisistratus must have found an Iliad that was already
ancient, and the silence of the Alexandrine critics respecting the
Peisistratic "recension," goes far to prove, that, among the numerous
manuscripts they examined, this was either wanting, or thought
unworthy of attention.
"Moreover," he continues, "the whole tenor of the poems themselves
confirms what is here remarked. There is nothing, either in the Iliad
or Odyssey, which savours of modernism, applying that term to the age
of Peisistratus--nothing which brings to our view the alterations
brought about by two centuries, in the Greek language, the coined
money, the habits of writing and reading, the despotisms and
republican governments, the close military array, the improved
construction of ships, the Amphiktyonic convocations, the mutual
frequentation of religious festivals, the Oriental and Egyptian veins
of religion, &c., familiar to the latter epoch. These alterations
Onomakritus, and the other literary friends of Peisistratus, could
hardly have failed to notice, even without design, had they then, for
the first time, undertaken the task of piecing together many
self-existent epics into one large aggregate. Everything in the two
great Homeric poems, both in substance and in language, belongs to an
age two or three centuries earlier than Peisistratus. Indeed, even
the interpolations (or those passages which, on the best grounds, are
pronounced to be such) betray no trace of the sixth century before
Christ, and may well have been heard by Archilochus and Kallinus--in
some cases even by Arktinus and Hesiod--as genuine Homeric matter. As
far as the evidences on the case, as well internal as external,
enable us to judge, we seem warranted in believing that the Iliad and
Odyssey were recited substantially as they now stand (always allowing
for partial divergences of text and interpolations) in 776 B.C., our
first trustworthy mark of Grecian time; and this ancient date, let it
be added, as it is the best-authenticated fact, so it is also the
most important attribute of the Homeric poems, considered in
reference to Grecian history; for they thus afford us an insight into
the anti-historical character of the Greeks, enabling us to trace the
subsequent forward march of the nation, and to seize instructive
contrasts between their former and their later condition."
