"Sleepest thou, son of the warrior, horse-taming Atreus? It becomes not
a counsel-giving man, to whom the people have been intrusted, and to
whom so many things are a care, to sleep all the night. But now quickly
attend to me; for I am a messenger to thee from Jove, who, although far
distant, greatly regards and pities thee. He orders thee to arm the
long-haired Greeks with all their array, for now mayest thou take the
wide-wayed city of the Trojans, since the immortals, who possess the
Olympian mansions, no longer think dividedly; for Juno, supplicating,
hath bent all [to her will], and woes from Jove are impending over the
Trojans. But do thou preserve this in thy recollection, nor let
forgetfulness possess thee, when sweet sleep shall desert thee."
Thus then having spoken, he departed, and left him there pondering these
things in his mind, which were not destined to be accomplished. For he,
foolish, thought that he would take the city of Priam on that day; nor
knew he the deeds which Jupiter was really devising; for even he was
about yet to impose additional hardships and sorrows upon both Trojans
and Greeks, through mighty conflicts. But he awoke from his sleep, and
the heavenly voice was diffused around him. He sat up erect, and put on
his soft tunic, beautiful, new; and around him he threw his large cloak.
And he bound his beautiful sandals on his shining feet, and slung from
his shoulders the silver-studded sword. He also took his paternal
sceptre, ever imperishable, with which he went to the ships of the
brazen-mailed Greeks.
The goddess Aurora now[76] ascended wide Olympus, announcing the dawn to
Jove and the other immortals. But he[77] on his part ordered the
clear-voiced heralds to summon the long-haired Achaeans[78] to an
assembly. They therefore summoned them, and the people were very
speedily assembled. First the assembly of magnanimous elders sat at the
ship of Nestor, the Pylus-born king. Having called them together, he
propounded a prudent counsel:
   [Footnote 76: [Greek: oa] appears to mark the regular transition
   from one event to another.]
   [Footnote 77: Agamemnon.]
   [Footnote 78: See on ver. 11.]
"Hear me, my friends: a divine dream came to me in sleep, during the
ambrosial night, very like unto the noble Nestor, in form, in stature,
and in mien. And it stood above my head, and addressed me: 'Sleepest
thou, son of the warrior, horse-taming Atreus? It becomes not a
counsellor, to whom the people have been intrusted, and to whom so many
things are a care, to sleep all the night. But now quickly attend to me;
for I am a messenger to thee from Jove, who, although far distant,
greatly regards and pities thee. He orders thee to arm the long-haired
Greeks with all their array, for now mayest thou take the wide-wayed
city of the Trojans; for the immortals, who possess the Olympian
mansions, no longer think dividedly, for Juno, supplicating, has bent
all [to her will], and woes from Jove are impending over the Trojans;
but do thou preserve this in thy thoughts.' Thus having spoken, flying
away, it departed; but sweet sleep resigned me. But come, [let us try]
if by any means we can arm the sons of the Greeks. But first with words
will I sound their inclinations, as is right, and I will command them to
fly with their many-benched ships; but do you restrain them with words,
one in one place, another in another."
