"But what ails me now? What ails me now? I feel my heart dilating like
the sea when it swells before the storm. An overwhelming weakness bows
me down, and the warm atmosphere seems to waft towards me the odour of
hair. Still, there is no trace of a woman here."
He turns towards the little pathway amid the rocks.
"This is the way they come, poised in their litters on the black arms of
eunuchs. They descend, and, joining together their hands, laden with
rings, they kneel down. They tell me their troubles. The need of a
superhuman voluptuousness tortures them. They would like to die; in
their dreams they have seen gods who called them by name; and the edges
of their robes fall round my feet. I repel them. 'Oh! no,' they say to
me, 'not yet! What must I do?' Any penance will appear easy to them.
They ask me for the most severe: to share in my own, to live with me.
"It is a long time now since I have seen any of them! Perhaps, though,
this is what is about to happen? And why not? If suddenly I were to hear
the mule-bells ringing in the mountains. It seems to me ..."
Antony climbs upon a rock, at the entrance of the path, and bends
forward, darting his eyes into the darkness.
"Yes! down there, at the very end, there is a moving mass, like people
who are trying to pick their way. Here it is! They are making a
mistake."
Calling out:
"On this side! Come! Come!"
The echo repeats:
"Come! Come!"
He lets his arms fall down, quite dazed.
"What a shame! Ah! poor Antony!"
And immediately he hears a whisper:
"Poor Antony."
"Is that anyone? Answer!"
It is the wind passing through the spaces between the rocks that causes
these intonations, and in their confused sonorities he distinguishes
voices, as if the air were speaking. They are low and insinuating, a
kind of sibilant utterance:
_The first_--"Do you wish for women?"
_The second_--"Nay; rather great piles of money."
_The third_--"A shining sword."
_The others_--"All the people admire you."
"Go to sleep."
"You will cut their throats. Yes! you will cut their throats."
At the same time, visible objects undergo a transformation. On the edge
of the cliff, the old palm-tree, with its cluster of yellow leaves,
becomes the torso of a woman leaning over the abyss, and poised by her
mass of hair.
Antony re-enters his cell, and the stool which sustains the big book,
with its pages filled with black letters, seems to him a bush covered
with swallows.
"Without doubt, it is the torch that is making this play of light. Let
us put it out!"
He puts it out, and finds himself in profound darkness.
And, suddenly, through the midst of the air, passes first, a pool of
water, then a prostitute, the corner of a temple, a figure of a soldier,
and a chariot with two white horses prancing.
