"It is by my direction that all these holy retreats have been built,
full of monks wearing hair-cloths beneath their goatskins, and numerous
enough to furnish forth an army. I have healed diseases at a distance. I
have banished demons. I have waded through the river in the midst of
crocodiles. The Emperor Constantine has written me three letters; and
Balacius, who treated with contempt the letter I sent him, has been torn
by his own horses. The people of Alexandria, whenever I reappeared
amongst them, fought to get a glimpse of me; and Athanasius was my guide
when I took my departure. But what toils, too, I have had to undergo!
Here, for more than thirty years, have I been constantly groaning in the
desert! I have carried on my loins eighty pounds of bronze, like
Eusebius; I have exposed my body to the stings of insects, like
Macarius; I have remained fifty-three nights without closing an eye,
like Pachomius; and those who are decapitated, torn with pincers, or
burnt, possess less virtue, perhaps, inasmuch as my life is a continual
martyrdom!"
Antony slackens his pace.
"Certainly there is no one who undergoes so much mortification.
Charitable hearts are growing fewer, and people never give me anything
now. My cloak is worn out, and I have no sandals, nor even a porringer;
for I gave all my goods and chattels to the poor and my own family,
without keeping a single obolus for myself. Should I not need a little
money to get the tools that are indispensable for my work? Oh! not
much--a little sum! ... I would husband it.
"The Fathers of Nicaea were ranged in purple robes on thrones along the
wall, like the Magi; and they were entertained at a banquet, while
honours were heaped upon them, especially on Paphnutius, merely because
he has lost an eye and is lame since Dioclesian's persecution! Many a
time the Emperor has kissed his injured eye. What folly! Moreover, the
Council had such worthless members! Theophilus, a bishop of Scythia;
John, another, in Persia; Spiridion, a cattle-drover. Alexander was too
old. Athanasius ought to have made himself more agreeable to the Arians
in order to get concessions from them!
"How is it they dealt with me? They would not even give me a hearing! He
who spoke against me--a tall young man with a curling beard--coolly
launched out captious objections; and while I was trying to find words
to reply to him, they kept looking at me with malignant glances, barking
at me like hyenas. Ah! if I could only get them all sent into exile by
the Emperor, or rather smite them, crush them, behold them suffering. I
have much to suffer myself!"
He sinks swooning against the wall of his cell.
"This is what it is to have fasted overmuch! My strength is going. If I
had eaten, only once, a morsel of meat!"
He half-closes his eyes languidly.
"Ah! for some red flesh ... a bunch of grapes to nibble, some curds that
would quiver on a plate!
