"How is this? The jackals must have taken it, curse them!"
And he flings the bread furiously upon the ground.
This movement is scarcely completed when a table presents itself to
view, covered with all kinds of dainties. The table-cloth of byssus,
striated like the fillets of sphinxes, seems to unfold itself in
luminous undulations. Upon it there are enormous quarters of flesh-meat,
huge fishes, birds with their feathers, quadrupeds with their hair,
fruits with an almost natural colouring; and pieces of white ice and
flagons of violet crystal shed glowing reflections. In the middle of
the table Antony observes a wild boar smoking from all its pores, its
paws beneath its belly, its eyes half-closed--and the idea of being able
to eat this formidable animal rejoices his heart exceedingly. Then,
there are things he had never seen before--black hashes, jellies of the
colour of gold, ragouts, in which mushrooms float like water-lilies on
the surface of a pool, whipped creams, so light that they resemble
clouds.
And the aroma of all this brings to him the odour of the ocean, the
coolness of fountains, the mighty perfume of woods. He dilates his
nostrils as much as possible; he drivels, saying to himself that there
is enough there to last for a year, for ten years, for his whole life!
In proportion as he fixes his wide-opened eyes upon the dishes, others
accumulate, forming a pyramid, whose angles turn downwards. The wines
begin to flow, the fishes to palpitate; the blood in the dishes bubbles
up; the pulp of the fruits draws nearer, like amorous lips; and the
table rises to his breast, to his very chin--with only one seat and one
cover, which are exactly in front of him.
He is about to seize the loaf of bread. Other loaves make their
appearance.
"For me! ... all! but----"
Antony draws back.
"In the place of the one which was there, here are others! It is a
miracle, then, exactly like that the Lord performed! ... With what
object? Nay, all the rest of it is not less incomprehensible! Ah! demon,
begone! begone!"
He gives a kick to the table. It disappears.
"Nothing more? No!"
He draws a long breath.
"Ah! the temptation was strong. But what an escape I have had!"
He raises up his head, and stumbles against an object which emits a
sound.
"What can this be?"
Antony stoops down.
"Hold! A cup! Someone must have lost it while travelling--nothing
extraordinary!----"
He wets his finger and rubs.
"It glitters! Precious metal! However, I cannot distinguish----"
He lights his torch and examines the cup.
"It is made of silver, adorned with ovolos at its rim, with a medal at
the bottom."
He makes the medal resound with a touch of his finger-nail.
"It is a piece of money which is worth from seven to eight drachmas--not
more. No matter! I can easily with that sum get myself a sheepskin."
The torch's reflection lights up the cup.
"It is not possible! Gold! yes, all gold!"
