These images make their appearance abruptly, in successive shocks,
standing out from the darkness like pictures of scarlet above a
background of ebony.
Their motion becomes more rapid; they pass in a dizzy fashion. At other
times they stop, and, growing pale by degrees, dissolve--or, rather,
they fly away, and instantly others arrive in their stead.
Antony droops his eyelids.
They multiply, surround, besiege him. An unspeakable terror seizes hold
of him, and he no longer has any sensation but that of a burning
contraction in the epigastrium. In spite of the confusion of his brain,
he is conscious of a tremendous silence which separates him from all the
world. He tries to speak; impossible! It is as if the link that bound
him to existence was snapped; and, making no further resistance, Antony
falls upon the mat.
CHAPTER II.
THE TEMPTATION OF LOVE AND POWER.
Then, a great shadow--more subtle than an ordinary shadow, from whose
borders other shadows hang in festoons--traces itself upon the ground.
It is the Devil, resting against the roof of the cell and carrying under
his wings--like a gigantic bat that is suckling its young--the Seven
Deadly Sins, whose grinning heads disclose themselves confusedly.
Antony, his eyes still closed, remains languidly passive, and stretches
his limbs upon the mat, which seems to him to grow softer every moment,
until it swells out and becomes a bed; then the bed becomes a shallop,
with water rippling against its sides.
To right and left rise up two necks of black soil that tower above the
cultivated plains, with a sycamore here and there. A noise of bells,
drums, and singers resounds at a distance. These are caused by people
who are going down from Canopus to sleep at the Temple of Serapis.
Antony is aware of this, and he glides, driven by the wind, between the
two banks of the canal. The leaves of the papyrus and the red blossoms
of the water-lilies, larger than a man, bend over him. He lies extended
at the bottom of the vessel. An oar from behind drags through the water.
From time to time rises a hot breath of air that shakes the thin reeds.
The murmur of the tiny waves grows fainter. A drowsiness takes
possession of him. He dreams that he is an Egyptian Solitary.
Then he starts up all of a sudden.
"Have I been dreaming? It was so pleasant that I doubted its reality. My
tongue is burning! I am thirsty!"
He enters his cell and searches about everywhere at random.
"The ground is wet! Has it been raining? Stop! Scraps of food! My
pitcher broken! But the water-bottle?"
He finds it.
"Empty, completely empty! In order to get down to the river, I should
need three hours at least, and the night is so dark I could not see well
enough to find my way there. My entrails are writhing. Where is the
bread?"
After searching for some time he picks up a crust smaller than an egg.
