"It is the Commander-in-Chief!" the Governor hurriedly whispered to his
companions, who at once followed his example in prostrating themselves
before the great man. The Commander gravely bowed in return. He was
covered with gold lace from head to foot: his face wore an expression of
deep misery: and he had a little black pig under each arm. Still the
gallant fellow did his best, in the midst of the orders he was every
moment issuing to his men, to bid a courteous farewell to the departing
guests.
"Farewell, oh old one--carry these three to the South corner--and
farewell to thee, thou young one--put this fat one on the top of the
others in the Western sty--may your shadows never be less--woe is me, it
is wrongly done! Empty out all the sties, and begin again!" And the
soldier leant upon his sword, and wiped away a tear.
"He is in distress," the Governor explained as they left the court. "Her
Radiancy has commanded him to place twenty-four pigs in those four
sties, so that, as she goes round the court, she may always find the
number in each sty nearer to ten than the number in the last."
"Does she call ten nearer to ten than nine is?" said Norman.
"Surely," said the Governor. "Her Radiancy would admit that ten is
nearer to ten than nine is--and also nearer than eleven is."
"Then I think it can be done," said Norman.
The Governor shook his head. "The Commander has been transferring them
in vain for four months," he said. "What hope remains? And Her Radiancy
has ordered up ten thousand additional----"
"The pigs don't seem to enjoy being transferred," the old man hastily
interrupted. He did not like the subject of bamboos.
"They are only _provisionally_ transferred, you know," said the
Governor. "In most cases they are immediately carried back again: so
they need not mind it. And all is done with the greatest care, under the
personal superintendence of the Commander-in-Chief."
"Of course she would only go _once_ round?" said Norman.
"Alas, no!" sighed their conductor. "Round and round. Round and round.
These are Her Radiancy's own words. But oh, agony! Here is the outer
gate, and we must part!" He sobbed as he shook hands with them, and the
next moment was briskly walking away.
"He _might_ have waited to see us off!" said the old man, piteously.
"And he needn't have begun whistling the very _moment_ he left us!" said
the young one, severely. "But look sharp--here are two what's-his-names
in the act of starting!"
Unluckily, the sea-bound omnibus was full. "Never mind!" said Norman,
cheerily. "We'll walk on till the next one overtakes us."
They trudged on in silence, both thinking over the military problem,
till they met an omnibus coming from the sea. The elder traveller took
out his watch. "Just twelve minutes and a half since we started," he
remarked in an absent manner. Suddenly the vacant face brightened; the
old man had an idea. "My boy!" he shouted, bringing his hand down upon
Norman's shoulder so suddenly as for a moment to transfer his centre of
gravity beyond the base of support.
