  "The meadows breathing amber light,
  The darkness toppling from the height,
  The feathery train of granite Night?
  "Shall he, grown gray among his peers,
  Through the thick curtain of his tears
  Catch glimpses of his earlier years,
[Illustration: "SHALL MAN BE MAN?"]
  "And hear the sounds he knew of yore,
  Old shufflings on the sanded floor,
  Old knuckles tapping at the door?
  "Yet still before him as he flies
  One pallid form shall ever rise,
  And, bodying forth in glassy eyes
  "The vision of a vanished good,
  Low peering through the tangled wood,
  Shall freeze the current of his blood."
  Still from each fact, with skill uncouth
  And savage rapture, like a tooth
  She wrenched some slow reluctant truth.
  Till, like a silent water-mill,
  When summer suns have dried the rill,
  She reached a full stop, and was still.
  Dead calm succeeded to the fuss,
  As when the loaded omnibus
  Has reached the railway terminus:
  When, for the tumult of the street,
  Is heard the engine's stifled beat,
  The velvet tread of porters' feet.
  With glance that ever sought the ground,
  She moved her lips without a sound,
  And every now and then she frowned.
  He gazed upon the sleeping sea,
  And joyed in its tranquillity,
  And in that silence dead, but she
  To muse a little space did seem,
  Then, like the echo of a dream,
  Harped back upon her threadbare theme.
  Still an attentive ear he lent
  But could not fathom what she meant:
  She was not deep, nor eloquent.
  He marked the ripple on the sand:
  The even swaying of her hand
  Was all that he could understand.
  He saw in dreams a drawing-room,
  Where thirteen wretches sat in gloom,
  Waiting--he thought he knew for whom:
  He saw them drooping here and there,
  Each feebly huddled on a chair,
  In attitudes of blank despair:
  Oysters were not more mute than they,
  For all their brains were pumped away,
  And they had nothing more to say--
  Save one, who groaned "Three hours are gone!"
  Who shrieked "We'll wait no longer, John!
  Tell them to set the dinner on!"
  The vision passed: the ghosts were fled:
  He saw once more that woman dread:
  He heard once more the words she said.
  He left her, and he turned aside:
  He sat and watched the coming tide
  Across the shores so newly dried.
[Illustration: "HE SAT AND WATCHED THE COMING TIDE"]
  He wondered at the waters clear,
  The breeze that whispered in his ear,
  The billows heaving far and near,
  And why he had so long preferred
  To hang upon her every word:
  "In truth," he said, "it was absurd."
[Illustration]
The Third Voice.
[Illustration]
  Not long this transport held its place:
  Within a little moment's space
  Quick tears were raining down his face.
  His heart stood still, aghast with fear;
  A wordless voice, nor far nor near,
  He seemed to hear and not to hear.
  "Tears kindle not the doubtful spark.
  If so, why not? Of this remark
  The bearings are profoundly dark."
