First, No. 5.  All we know about THIS is that its OUTER portion
is empty: but we know nothing about its inner portion.  Thus the
Square MAY be empty, or it MAY have something in it.  Who can tell?
So we dare not place ANY counter in this Square.
Secondly, what of No. 6?  Here we are a little better off.  We
know that there is SOMETHING in it, for there is a red counter in
its outer portion.  It is true we do not know whether its inner
portion is empty or occupied: but what does THAT matter?  One solitary
Cake, in one corner of the Square, is quite sufficient excuse for
saying "THIS SQUARE IS OCCUPIED", and for marking it with a red
counter.
As to No. 7, we are in the same condition as with No. 5--we find
it PARTLY 'empty', but we do not know whether the other part is
empty or occupied: so we dare not mark this Square.
And as to No. 8, we have simply no information at all.
The result is
                     -------
                    |   | 1 |
                    |---|---|
                    |   |   |
                     -------
Our 'Conclusion', then, must be got out of the rather meager piece
of information that there is a red counter in the xy'-Square.
Hence our Conclusion is "some x are y' ", i.e. "some new Cakes are
not-nice (Cakes)": or, if you prefer to take y' as your Subject,
"some not-nice Cakes are new (Cakes)"; but the other looks neatest.
We will now write out the whole Syllogism, putting the symbol
&there4[*] for "therefore", and omitting "Cakes", for the sake of
brevity, at the end of each Proposition.
[*][NOTE from Brett:  The use of "&there4" is a rather arbitrary
selection.  There is no font available in general practice
which renders the "therefore" symbol correction (three dots in a
triangular formation).  This can be done, however, in HTML, so if
this document is read in a browser, then the symbol will be properly
recognized.  This is a poor man's excuse.]
          "Some new Cakes are unwholesome;
           No nice Cakes are unwholesome
           &there4 Some new Cakes are not-nice."
And you have now worked out, successfully, your first 'SYLLOGISM'.
Permit me to congratulate you, and to express the hope that it is
but the beginning of a long and glorious series of similar victories!
We will work out one other Syllogism--a rather harder one than the
last--and then, I think, you may be safely left to play the Game
by yourself, or (better) with any friend whom you can find, that
is able and willing to take a share in the sport.
Let us see what we can make of the two Premisses--
              "All Dragons are uncanny;
               All Scotchmen are canny."
Remember, I don't guarantee the Premisses to be FACTS.  In the
first place, I never even saw a Dragon: and, in the second place,
it isn't of the slightest consequence to us, as LOGICIANS, whether
our Premisses are true or false: all WE have to do is to make out
whether they LEAD LOGICALLY TO THE CONCLUSION, so that, if THEY
were true, IT would be true also.
