There was a pause, which was decidedly uncomfortable. Mrs. Dalloway then
gave a little shiver, and asked whether she might have her fur cloak
brought to her. As she adjusted the soft brown fur about her neck a
fresh topic struck her.
"I own," she said, "that I shall never forget the _Antigone_. I saw it
at Cambridge years ago, and it's haunted me ever since. Don't you think
it's quite the most modern thing you ever saw?" she asked Ridley. "It
seemed to me I'd known twenty Clytemnestras. Old Lady Ditchling for one.
I don't know a word of Greek, but I could listen to it for ever--"
Here Mr. Pepper struck up:
     {See the html (144-h) or the UTF-8 (144-0) version of this file
     for a brief passage from Antigone, in Greek, at this spot.  ed.}
Mrs. Dalloway looked at him with compressed lips.
"I'd give ten years of my life to know Greek," she said, when he had
done.
"I could teach you the alphabet in half an hour," said Ridley, "and
you'd read Homer in a month. I should think it an honour to instruct
you."
Helen, engaged with Mr. Dalloway and the habit, now fallen into
decline, of quoting Greek in the House of Commons, noted, in the great
commonplace book that lies open beside us as we talk, the fact that all
men, even men like Ridley, really prefer women to be fashionable.
Clarissa exclaimed that she could think of nothing more delightful. For
an instant she saw herself in her drawing-room in Browne Street with a
Plato open on her knees--Plato in the original Greek. She could not help
believing that a real scholar, if specially interested, could slip Greek
into her head with scarcely any trouble.
Ridley engaged her to come to-morrow.
"If only your ship is going to treat us kindly!" she exclaimed,
drawing Willoughby into play. For the sake of guests, and these were
distinguished, Willoughby was ready with a bow of his head to vouch for
the good behaviour even of the waves.
"I'm dreadfully bad; and my husband's not very good," sighed Clarissa.
"I am never sick," Richard explained. "At least, I have only been
actually sick once," he corrected himself. "That was crossing the
Channel. But a choppy sea, I confess, or still worse, a swell, makes me
distinctly uncomfortable. The great thing is never to miss a meal. You
look at the food, and you say, 'I can't'; you take a mouthful, and
Lord knows how you're going to swallow it; but persevere, and you often
settle the attack for good. My wife's a coward."
They were pushing back their chairs. The ladies were hesitating at the
doorway.
"I'd better show the way," said Helen, advancing.
Rachel followed. She had taken no part in the talk; no one had spoken
to her; but she had listened to every word that was said. She had looked
from Mrs. Dalloway to Mr. Dalloway, and from Mr. Dalloway back again.
Clarissa, indeed, was a fascinating spectacle. She wore a white dress
and a long glittering necklace. What with her clothes, and her arch
delicate face, which showed exquisitely pink beneath hair turning grey,
she was astonishingly like an eighteenth-century masterpiece--a Reynolds
or a Romney. She made Helen and the others look coarse and slovenly
beside her. Sitting lightly upright she seemed to be dealing with the
world as she chose; the enormous solid globe spun round this way and
that beneath her fingers. And her husband! Mr. Dalloway rolling that
rich deliberate voice was even more impressive. He seemed to come from
the humming oily centre of the machine where the polished rods are
sliding, and the pistons thumping; he grasped things so firmly but so
loosely; he made the others appear like old maids cheapening remnants.
Rachel followed in the wake of the matrons, as if in a trance; a curious
scent of violets came back from Mrs. Dalloway, mingling with the soft
rustling of her skirts, and the tinkling of her chains. As she followed,
Rachel thought with supreme self-abasement, taking in the whole course
of her life and the lives of all her friends, "She said we lived in a
world of our own. It's true. We're perfectly absurd."
