"Move! Move! Move!" cried Helen, chasing him from corner to corner with
a chair as though he were an errant hen. "Out of the way, Ridley, and in
half an hour you'll find it ready."
She turned him out of the room, and they could hear him groaning and
swearing as he went along the passage.
"I daresay he isn't very strong," said Mrs. Chailey, looking at Mrs.
Ambrose compassionately, as she helped to shift and carry.
"It's books," sighed Helen, lifting an armful of sad volumes from the
floor to the shelf. "Greek from morning to night. If ever Miss Rachel
marries, Chailey, pray that she may marry a man who doesn't know his
ABC."
The preliminary discomforts and harshnesses, which generally make the
first days of a sea voyage so cheerless and trying to the temper, being
somehow lived through, the succeeding days passed pleasantly enough.
October was well advanced, but steadily burning with a warmth that made
the early months of the summer appear very young and capricious. Great
tracts of the earth lay now beneath the autumn sun, and the whole of
England, from the bald moors to the Cornish rocks, was lit up from dawn
to sunset, and showed in stretches of yellow, green, and purple. Under
that illumination even the roofs of the great towns glittered. In
thousands of small gardens, millions of dark-red flowers were blooming,
until the old ladies who had tended them so carefully came down the
paths with their scissors, snipped through their juicy stalks, and laid
them upon cold stone ledges in the village church. Innumerable parties
of picnickers coming home at sunset cried, "Was there ever such a day
as this?" "It's you," the young men whispered; "Oh, it's you," the young
women replied. All old people and many sick people were drawn, were it
only for a foot or two, into the open air, and prognosticated pleasant
things about the course of the world. As for the confidences and
expressions of love that were heard not only in cornfields but in
lamplit rooms, where the windows opened on the garden, and men with
cigars kissed women with grey hairs, they were not to be counted. Some
said that the sky was an emblem of the life to come. Long-tailed birds
clattered and screamed, and crossed from wood to wood, with golden eyes
in their plumage.
But while all this went on by land, very few people thought about the
sea. They took it for granted that the sea was calm; and there was no
need, as there is in many houses when the creeper taps on the bedroom
windows, for the couples to murmur before they kiss, "Think of the ships
to-night," or "Thank Heaven, I'm not the man in the lighthouse!" For all
they imagined, the ships when they vanished on the sky-line dissolved,
like snow in water. The grown-up view, indeed, was not much clearer than
the view of the little creatures in bathing drawers who were trotting
in to the foam all along the coasts of England, and scooping up buckets
full of water. They saw white sails or tufts of smoke pass across the
horizon, and if you had said that these were waterspouts, or the petals
of white sea flowers, they would have agreed.
