"What I find so tiresome about the sea is that there are no flowers in
it. Imagine fields of hollyhocks and violets in mid-ocean! How divine!"
"But somewhat dangerous to navigation," boomed Richard, in the bass,
like the bassoon to the flourish of his wife's violin. "Why, weeds
can be bad enough, can't they, Vinrace? I remember crossing in the
_Mauretania_ once, and saying to the Captain--Richards--did you know
him?--'Now tell me what perils you really dread most for your ship,
Captain Richards?' expecting him to say icebergs, or derelicts, or fog,
or something of that sort. Not a bit of it. I've always remembered his
answer. '_Sedgius_ _aquatici_,' he said, which I take to be a kind of
duck-weed."
Mr. Pepper looked up sharply, and was about to put a question when
Willoughby continued:
"They've an awful time of it--those captains! Three thousand souls on
board!"
"Yes, indeed," said Clarissa. She turned to Helen with an air of
profundity. "I'm convinced people are wrong when they say it's work that
wears one; it's responsibility. That's why one pays one's cook more than
one's housemaid, I suppose."
"According to that, one ought to pay one's nurse double; but one
doesn't," said Helen.
"No; but think what a joy to have to do with babies, instead of
saucepans!" said Mrs. Dalloway, looking with more interest at Helen, a
probable mother.
"I'd much rather be a cook than a nurse," said Helen. "Nothing would
induce me to take charge of children."
"Mothers always exaggerate," said Ridley. "A well-bred child is no
responsibility. I've travelled all over Europe with mine. You just wrap
'em up warm and put 'em in the rack."
Helen laughed at that. Mrs. Dalloway exclaimed, looking at Ridley:
"How like a father! My husband's just the same. And then one talks of
the equality of the sexes!"
"Does one?" said Mr. Pepper.
"Oh, some do!" cried Clarissa. "My husband had to pass an irate lady
every afternoon last session who said nothing else, I imagine."
"She sat outside the house; it was very awkward," said Dalloway. "At
last I plucked up courage and said to her, 'My good creature, you're
only in the way where you are. You're hindering me, and you're doing no
good to yourself.'"
"And then she caught him by the coat, and would have scratched his eyes
out--" Mrs. Dalloway put in.
"Pooh--that's been exaggerated," said Richard. "No, I pity them, I
confess. The discomfort of sitting on those steps must be awful."
"Serve them right," said Willoughby curtly.
"Oh, I'm entirely with you there," said Dalloway. "Nobody can condemn
the utter folly and futility of such behaviour more than I do; and as
for the whole agitation, well! may I be in my grave before a woman has
the right to vote in England! That's all I say."
The solemnity of her husband's assertion made Clarissa grave.
"It's unthinkable," she said. "Don't tell me you're a suffragist?" she
turned to Ridley.
"I don't care a fig one way or t'other," said Ambrose. "If any creature
is so deluded as to think that a vote does him or her any good, let him
have it. He'll soon learn better."
