Was Canute to be King now?  Not over the Saxons, they said; they must
have EDMUND, one of the sons of the Unready, who was surnamed IRONSIDE,
because of his strength and stature.  Edmund and Canute thereupon fell
to, and fought five battles--O unhappy England, what a fighting-ground it
was!--and then Ironside, who was a big man, proposed to Canute, who was a
little man, that they two should fight it out in single combat.  If
Canute had been the big man, he would probably have said yes, but, being
the little man, he decidedly said no.  However, he declared that he was
willing to divide the kingdom--to take all that lay north of Watling
Street, as the old Roman military road from Dover to Chester was called,
and to give Ironside all that lay south of it.  Most men being weary of
so much bloodshed, this was done.  But Canute soon became sole King of
England; for Ironside died suddenly within two months.  Some think that
he was killed, and killed by Canute's orders.  No one knows.
CHAPTER V--ENGLAND UNDER CANUTE THE DANE
Canute reigned eighteen years.  He was a merciless King at first.  After
he had clasped the hands of the Saxon chiefs, in token of the sincerity
with which he swore to be just and good to them in return for their
acknowledging him, he denounced and slew many of them, as well as many
relations of the late King.  'He who brings me the head of one of my
enemies,' he used to say, 'shall be dearer to me than a brother.'  And he
was so severe in hunting down his enemies, that he must have got together
a pretty large family of these dear brothers.  He was strongly inclined
to kill EDMUND and EDWARD, two children, sons of poor Ironside; but,
being afraid to do so in England, he sent them over to the King of
Sweden, with a request that the King would be so good as 'dispose of
them.'  If the King of Sweden had been like many, many other men of that
day, he would have had their innocent throats cut; but he was a kind man,
and brought them up tenderly.
Normandy ran much in Canute's mind.  In Normandy were the two children of
the late king--EDWARD and ALFRED by name; and their uncle the Duke might
one day claim the crown for them.  But the Duke showed so little
inclination to do so now, that he proposed to Canute to marry his sister,
the widow of The Unready; who, being but a showy flower, and caring for
nothing so much as becoming a queen again, left her children and was
wedded to him.
Successful and triumphant, assisted by the valour of the English in his
foreign wars, and with little strife to trouble him at home, Canute had a
prosperous reign, and made many improvements.  He was a poet and a
musician.  He grew sorry, as he grew older, for the blood he had shed at
first; and went to Rome in a Pilgrim's dress, by way of washing it out.
He gave a great deal of money to foreigners on his journey; but he took
it from the English before he started.  On the whole, however, he
certainly became a far better man when he had no opposition to contend
with, and was as great a King as England had known for some time.
