"I was only eight."
"An' 'tis twelve year agone.  Twelve year I've spint on the Inside,
with niver a trip out.  Ye must be twinty now?"
"And almost as big as you," Frona affirmed.
"A likely woman ye've grown into, tall, an' shapely, an' all that."  He
looked her over critically.  "But ye cud 'a' stood a bit more flesh,
I'm thinkin'."
"No, no," she denied.  "Not at twenty, Matt, not at twenty.  Feel my
arm, you'll see."  She doubled that member till the biceps knotted.
"'Tis muscle," he admitted, passing his hand admiringly over the
swelling bunch; "just as though ye'd been workin' hard for yer livin'."
"Oh, I can swing clubs, and box, and fence," she cried, successively
striking the typical postures; "and swim, and make high dives, chin a
bar twenty times, and--and walk on my hands.  There!"
"Is that what ye've been doin'?  I thought ye wint away for
book-larnin'," he commented, dryly.
"But they have new ways of teaching, now, Matt, and they don't turn you
out with your head crammed--"
"An' yer legs that spindly they can't carry it all!  Well, an' I
forgive ye yer muscle."
"But how about yourself, Matt?" Frona asked.  "How has the world been
to you these twelve years?"
"Behold!"  He spread his legs apart, threw his head back, and his chest
out.  "Ye now behold Mister Matthew McCarthy, a king iv the noble
Eldorado Dynasty by the strength iv his own right arm.  Me possessions
is limitless.  I have more dust in wan minute than iver I saw in all me
life before.  Me intintion for makin' this trip to the States is to
look up me ancestors.  I have a firm belafe that they wance existed.
Ye may find nuggets in the Klondike, but niver good whiskey.  'Tis
likewise me intintion to have wan drink iv the rate stuff before I die.
Afther that 'tis me sworn resolve to return to the superveeshion iv me
Klondike properties.  Indade, and I'm an Eldorado king; an' if ye'll be
wantin' the lind iv a tidy bit, it's meself that'll loan it ye."
"The same old, old Matt, who never grows old," Frona laughed.
"An' it's yerself is the thrue Welse, for all yer prize-fighter's
muscles an' yer philosopher's brains.  But let's wander inside on the
heels of Louis an' Swiftwater.  Andy's still tindin' store, I'm told,
an' we'll see if I still linger in the pages iv his mimory."
"And I, also." Frona seized him by the hand.  It was a bad habit she
had of seizing the hands of those she loved.  "It's ten years since I
went away."
The Irishman forged his way through the crowd like a pile-driver, and
Frona followed easily in the lee of his bulk.  The tenderfeet watched
them reverently, for to them they were as Northland divinities.  The
buzz of conversation rose again.
"Who's the girl?" somebody asked.  And just as Frona passed inside the
door she caught the opening of the answer: "Jacob Welse's daughter.
Never heard of Jacob Welse?  Where have you been keeping yourself?"
