"You hain't ever said a truer word than that, Wells-Fargo," said Jake
Parker. "Say, wouldn't it 'a' been nuts if he'd a-been here last night?"
"Oh, by George, but wouldn't it!" said Ferguson. "Then we'd have seen
scientific work. Intellect--just pure intellect--away up on the upper
levels, dontchuknow. Archy is all right, and it don't become anybody to
belittle him, I can tell you. But his gift is only just eyesight, sharp
as an owl's, as near as I can make it out just a grand natural animal
talent, no more, no less, and prime as far as it goes, but no intellect
in it, and for awfulness and marvelousness no more to be compared to
what this man does than--than--Why, let me tell you what he'd have done.
He'd have stepped over to Hogan's and glanced--just glanced, that's
all--at the premises, and that's enough. See everything? Yes, sir, to
the last little detail; and he'll know more about that place than the
Hogans would know in seven years. Next, he would sit down on the bunk,
just as ca'm, and say to Mrs. Hogan--Say, Ham, consider that you are
Mrs. Hogan. I'll ask the questions; you answer them."
"All right; go on."
"'Madam, if you please--attention--do not let your mind wander. Now,
then--sex of the child?'
"'Female, your Honor.'
"'Um--female. Very good, very good. Age?'
"'Turned six, your Honor.'
"'Um--young, weak--two miles. Weariness will overtake it then. It will
sink down and sleep. We shall find it two miles away, or less. Teeth?'
"'Five, your Honor, and one a-coming.'
"'Very good, very good, very good, indeed.' You see, boys, he knows
a clue when he sees it, when it wouldn't mean a dern thing to anybody
else. 'Stockings, madam? Shoes?'
"'Yes, your Honor--both.'
"'Yarn, perhaps? Morocco?'
"'Yarn, your Honor. And kip.'
"'Um--kip. This complicates the matter. However, let it go--we shall
manage. Religion?'
"'Catholic, your Honor.'
"'Very good. Snip me a bit from the bed blanket, please. Ah, thanks.
Part wool--foreign make. Very well. A snip from some garment of
the child's, please. Thanks. Cotton. Shows wear. An excellent clue,
excellent. Pass me a pallet of the floor dirt, if you'll be so kind.
Thanks, many thanks. Ah, admirable, admirable! Now we know where we are,
I think.' You see, boys, he's got all the clues he wants now; he don't
need anything more. Now, then, what does this Extraordinary Man do? He
lays those snips and that dirt out on the table and leans over them
on his elbows, and puts them together side by side and studies
them--mumbles to himself, 'Female'; changes them around--mumbles,
'Six years old'; changes them this way and that--again mumbles: 'Five
teeth--one a-coming--Catholic--yarn--cotton--kip--damn that kip.' Then
he straightens up and gazes toward heaven, and plows his hands through
his hair--plows and plows, muttering, 'Damn that kip!' Then he stands up
and frowns, and begins to tally off his clues on his fingers--and gets
stuck at the ring-finger. But only just a minute--then his face glares
all up in a smile like a house afire, and he straightens up stately and
majestic, and says to the crowd, 'Take a lantern, a couple of you, and
go down to Injun Billy's and fetch the child--the rest of you go 'long
home to bed; good-night, madam; good-night, gents.' And he bows like
the Matterhorn, and pulls out for the tavern. That's his style, and the
Only--scientific, intellectual--all over in fifteen minutes--no
poking around all over the sage-brush range an hour and a half in a
mass-meeting crowd for him, boys--you hear me!"
