"'I will buy things here, and tell all my friends about it, and I
have a drawer full of pretty bits of silk and velvet and plush, that
I will give Miss Miller for her work, if she will let me.' I added
that, for I saw that Almiry was rather proud, and hid her troubles
under a grim look.
"That pleased the old lady, and, lowering her voice, she said, with
a motherly sort of look in her beady eyes: 'Seein' as you are so
friendly, I'll tell you what frets me most, a layin' here, a burden
to my darter. She kep' company with Nathan Baxter, a master
carpenter up to Westminster where we lived, and ef father hadn't a
died suddin' they'd a ben married. They waited a number o' years,
workin' to their trades, and we was hopin' all would turn out wal,
when troubles come, and here we be. Nathan's got his own folks to
see to, and Almiry won't add to HIS load with hern, nor leave me; so
she give him back his ring, and jest buckled to all alone. She don't
say a word, but it's wearin' her to a shadder, and I can't do a
thing to help, but make a few pinballs, knit garters, and kiver
holders. Ef she got a start in business it would cheer her up a
sight, and give her a kind of a hopeful prospeck, for old folks
can't live forever, and Nathan is a waitin', faithful and true.'
"That just finished me, for I am romantic, and do enjoy love stories
with all my heart, even if the lovers are only a skinny spinster and
a master carpenter. So I just resolved to see what I could do for
poor Almiry and the peppery old lady. I didn't promise anything but
my bits, and, taking the things I bought, went home to talk it over
with Mamma. I found she had often got pins and tape, and such small
wares, at the little shop, and found it very convenient, though she
knew nothing about the Millers. She was willing I should help if I
could, but advised going slowly, and seeing what they could do
first. We did not dare to treat them like beggars, and send them
money and clothes, and tea and sugar, as we do the Irish, for they
were evidently respectable people, and proud as poor. So I took my
bundle of odds and ends, and Mamma added some nice large pieces of
dresses we had done with, and gave a fine order for aprons and
holders and balls for our church fair.
"It would have done your hearts good, girls, to see those poor old
faces light up as I showed my scraps, and asked if the work would be
ready by Christmas. Grammer fairly swam in the gay colors I strewed
over her bed, and enjoyed them like a child, while Almiry tried to
be grim, but had to give it up, as she began at once to cut out
aprons, and dropped tears all over the muslin when her back was
turned to me. I didn't know a washed-out old maid COULD be so
pathetic."
