‘Away!  Away!’ cried the Priest: ‘thy leman is lost, and thou shalt be
lost with her.’
And he gave him no blessing, but drove him from his door.
And the young Fisherman went down into the market-place, and he walked
slowly, and with bowed head, as one who is in sorrow.
And when the merchants saw him coming, they began to whisper to each
other, and one of them came forth to meet him, and called him by name,
and said to him, ‘What hast thou to sell?’
‘I will sell thee my soul,’ he answered.  ‘I pray thee buy it of me, for
I am weary of it.  Of what use is my soul to me?  I cannot see it.  I may
not touch it.  I do not know it.’
But the merchants mocked at him, and said, ‘Of what use is a man’s soul
to us?  It is not worth a clipped piece of silver.  Sell us thy body for
a slave, and we will clothe thee in sea-purple, and put a ring upon thy
finger, and make thee the minion of the great Queen.  But talk not of the
soul, for to us it is nought, nor has it any value for our service.’
And the young Fisherman said to himself: ‘How strange a thing this is!
The Priest telleth me that the soul is worth all the gold in the world,
and the merchants say that it is not worth a clipped piece of silver.’
And he passed out of the market-place, and went down to the shore of the
sea, and began to ponder on what he should do.
                                * * * * *
And at noon he remembered how one of his companions, who was a gatherer
of samphire, had told him of a certain young Witch who dwelt in a cave at
the head of the bay and was very cunning in her witcheries.  And he set
to and ran, so eager was he to get rid of his soul, and a cloud of dust
followed him as he sped round the sand of the shore.  By the itching of
her palm the young Witch knew his coming, and she laughed and let down
her red hair.  With her red hair falling around her, she stood at the
opening of the cave, and in her hand she had a spray of wild hemlock that
was blossoming.
‘What d’ye lack?  What d’ye lack?’ she cried, as he came panting up the
steep, and bent down before her.  ‘Fish for thy net, when the wind is
foul?  I have a little reed-pipe, and when I blow on it the mullet come
sailing into the bay.  But it has a price, pretty boy, it has a price.
What d’ye lack?  What d’ye lack?  A storm to wreck the ships, and wash
the chests of rich treasure ashore?  I have more storms than the wind
has, for I serve one who is stronger than the wind, and with a sieve and
a pail of water I can send the great galleys to the bottom of the sea.
But I have a price, pretty boy, I have a price.  What d’ye lack?  What
d’ye lack?  I know a flower that grows in the valley, none knows it but
I.  It has purple leaves, and a star in its heart, and its juice is as
white as milk.  Shouldst thou touch with this flower the hard lips of the
Queen, she would follow thee all over the world.  Out of the bed of the
King she would rise, and over the whole world she would follow thee.  And
it has a price, pretty boy, it has a price.  What d’ye lack?  What d’ye
lack?  I can pound a toad in a mortar, and make broth of it, and stir the
broth with a dead man’s hand.  Sprinkle it on thine enemy while he
sleeps, and he will turn into a black viper, and his own mother will slay
him.  With a wheel I can draw the Moon from heaven, and in a crystal I
can show thee Death.  What d’ye lack?  What d’ye lack?  Tell me thy
desire, and I will give it thee, and thou shalt pay me a price, pretty
boy, thou shalt pay me a price.’
