The Governor smiled proudly. "In your honour," he said, "Her Radiancy
has ordered up ten thousand additional peacocks. She will, no doubt,
decorate you, before you go, with the usual Star and Feathers."
"It'll be Star without the S!" faltered one of his hearers.
"Come, come! Don't lose heart!" said the other. "All this is full of
charm for me."
"You are young, Norman," sighed his father; "young and light-hearted.
For me, it is Charm without the C."
"The old one is sad," the Governor remarked with some anxiety. "He has,
without doubt, effected some fearful crime?"
"But I haven't!" the poor old gentleman hastily exclaimed. "Tell him I
haven't, Norman!"
"He has not, as yet," Norman gently explained. And the Governor
repeated, in a satisfied tone, "Not as yet."
"Yours is a wondrous country!" the Governor resumed, after a pause. "Now
here is a letter from a friend of mine, a merchant, in London. He and
his brother went there a year ago, with a thousand pounds apiece; and on
New-Year's-day they had sixty thousand pounds between them!"
"How did they do it?" Norman eagerly exclaimed. Even the elder traveller
looked excited.
The Governor handed him the open letter. "Anybody can do it, when once
they know how," so ran this oracular document. "We borrowed nought: we
stole nought. We began the year with only a thousand pounds apiece: and
last New-Year's-day we had sixty thousand pounds between us--sixty
thousand golden sovereigns!"
Norman looked grave and thoughtful as he handed back the letter. His
father hazarded one guess. "Was it by gambling?"
"A Kgovjnian never gambles," said the Governor gravely, as he ushered
them through the palace gates. They followed him in silence down a long
passage, and soon found themselves in a lofty hall, lined entirely with
peacocks' feathers. In the centre was a pile of crimson cushions, which
almost concealed the figure of Her Radiancy--a plump little damsel, in a
robe of green satin dotted with silver stars, whose pale round face lit
up for a moment with a half-smile as the travellers bowed before her,
and then relapsed into the exact expression of a wax doll, while she
languidly murmured a word or two in the Kgovjnian dialect.
The Governor interpreted. "Her Radiancy welcomes you. She notes the
Impenetrable Placidity of the old one, and the Imperceptible Acuteness
of the youth."
Here the little potentate clapped her hands, and a troop of slaves
instantly appeared, carrying trays of coffee and sweetmeats, which they
offered to the guests, who had, at a signal from the Governor, seated
themselves on the carpet.
"Sugar-plums!" muttered the old man. "One might as well be at a
confectioner's! Ask for a penny bun, Norman!"
"Not so loud!" his son whispered. "Say something complimentary!" For the
Governor was evidently expecting a speech.
"We thank Her Exalted Potency," the old man timidly began. "We bask in
the light of her smile, which----"
"The words of old men are weak!" the Governor interrupted angrily. "Let
the youth speak!"
