"Suppose a solid held above the surface of a liquid and partially
immersed: a portion of the liquid is displaced, and the level of the
liquid rises. But, by this rise of level, a little bit more of the solid
is of course immersed, and so there is a new displacement of a second
portion of the liquid, and a consequent rise of level. Again, this
second rise of level causes a yet further immersion, and by consequence
another displacement of liquid and another rise. It is self-evident that
this process must continue till the entire solid is immersed, and that
the liquid will then begin to immerse whatever holds the solid, which,
being connected with it, must for the time be considered a part of it.
If you hold a stick, six feet long, with its end in a tumbler of water,
and wait long enough, you must eventually be immersed. The question as
to the source from which the water is supplied--which belongs to a high
branch of mathematics, and is therefore beyond our present scope--does
not apply to the sea. Let us therefore take the familiar instance of a
man standing at the edge of the sea, at ebb-tide, with a solid in his
hand, which he partially immerses: he remains steadfast and unmoved, and
we all know that he must be drowned. The multitudes who daily perish in
this manner to attest a philosophical truth, and whose bodies the
unreasoning wave casts sullenly upon our thankless shores, have a truer
claim to be called the martyrs of science than a Galileo or a Kepler. To
use Kossuth's eloquent phrase, they are the unnamed demigods of the
nineteenth century."[B]
       *       *       *       *       *
"There's a fallacy _somewhere_," he murmured drowsily, as he stretched
his long legs upon the sofa. "I must think it over again." He closed his
eyes, in order to concentrate his attention more perfectly, and for the
next hour or so his slow and regular breathing bore witness to the
careful deliberation with which he was investigating this new and
perplexing view of the subject.
[Illustration: "HE REMAINS STEADFAST AND UNMOVED."]
FOOTNOTE:
[Footnote B: _Note by the writer._--For the above Essay I am indebted to
a dear friend, now deceased.]
KNOT X.
CHELSEA BUNS.
   "Yea, buns, and buns, and buns!"
                          OLD SONG.
"How very, very sad!" exclaimed Clara; and the eyes of the gentle girl
filled with tears as she spoke.
"Sad--but very curious when you come to look at it arithmetically," was
her aunt's less romantic reply. "Some of them have lost an arm in their
country's service, some a leg, some an ear, some an eye----"
"And some, perhaps, _all_!" Clara murmured dreamily, as they passed the
long rows of weather-beaten heroes basking in the sun. "Did you notice
that very old one, with a red face, who was drawing a map in the dust
with his wooden leg, and all the others watching? I _think_ it was a
plan of a battle----"
