"Me fella missionary," the black interrupted with deliberate insolence.
"Queensland you stop jail one fella year.  White fella master damn fool
no hang you.  You too much bad fella.  Queensland you stop jail six
months two fella time.  Two fella time you steal.  All right, you
missionary.  You savvee one fella prayer?"
"Yes, me savvee prayer," was the reply.
"All right, then you pray now, short time little bit.  You say one fella
prayer damn quick, then me kill you."
Sheldon held the rifle on him and waited.  The black glanced around at
his fellows, but none moved to aid him.  They were intent upon the coming
spectacle, staring fascinated at the white man with death in his hands
who stood alone on the great veranda.  Sheldon has won, and he knew it.
Astoa changed his weight irresolutely from one foot to the other.  He
looked at the white man, and saw his eyes gleaming level along the
sights.
"Astoa," Sheldon said, seizing the psychological moment, "I count three
fella time.  Then I shoot you fella dead, good-bye, all finish you."
And Sheldon knew that when he had counted three he would drop him in his
tracks.  The black knew it, too.  That was why Sheldon did not have to do
it, for when he had counted one, Astoa reached out his hand and took the
whip.  And right well Astoa laid on the whip, angered at his fellows for
not supporting him and venting his anger with every stroke.  From the
veranda Sheldon egged him on to strike with strength, till the two triced
savages screamed and howled while the blood oozed down their backs.  The
lesson was being well written in red.
When the last of the gang, including the two howling culprits, had passed
out through the compound gate, Sheldon sank down half-fainting on his
couch.
"You're a sick man," he groaned.  "A sick man."
"But you can sleep at ease to-night," he added, half an hour later.
CHAPTER III--THE JESSIE
Two days passed, and Sheldon felt that he could not grow any weaker and
live, much less make his four daily rounds of the hospital.  The deaths
were averaging four a day, and there were more new cases than recoveries.
The blacks were in a funk.  Each one, when taken sick, seemed to make
every effort to die.  Once down on their backs they lacked the grit to
make a struggle.  They believed they were going to die, and they did
their best to vindicate that belief.  Even those that were well were sure
that it was only a mater of days when the sickness would catch them and
carry them off.  And yet, believing this with absolute conviction, they
somehow lacked the nerve to rush the frail wraith of a man with the white
skin and escape from the charnel house by the whale-boats.  They chose
the lingering death they were sure awaited them, rather than the
immediate death they were very sure would pounce upon them if they went
up against the master.  That he never slept, they knew.  That he could
not be conjured to death, they were equally sure--they had tried it.  And
even the sickness that was sweeping them off could not kill him.
