"'He's sleeping out and far to-night,'" Sheldon quoted, as he thought of
the dead man in the sand and the rainwater trickling down upon the cold
clay.
So they fought their way back up the beach.  The other blacks caught hold
of the man-horse and pulled and tugged.  There were among them those
whose fondest desire was to drag the rider in the sand and spring upon
him and mash him into repulsive nothingness.  But the automatic pistol in
his belt with its rattling, quick-dealing death, and the automatic, death-
defying spirit in the man himself, made them refrain and buckle down to
the task of hauling him to safety through the storm.
Wet through and exhausted, he was nevertheless surprised at the ease with
which he got into a change of clothing.  Though he was fearfully weak, he
found himself actually feeling better.  The disease had spent itself, and
the mend had begun.
"Now if I don't get the fever," he said aloud, and at the same moment
resolved to go to taking quinine as soon as he was strong enough to dare.
He crawled out on the veranda.  The rain had ceased, but the wind, which
had dwindled to a half-gale, was increasing.  A big sea had sprung up,
and the mile-long breakers, curling up to the over-fall two hundred yards
from shore, were crashing on the beach.  The _Jessie_ was plunging madly
to two anchors, and every second or third sea broke clear over her bow.
Two flags were stiffly undulating from the halyards like squares of
flexible sheet-iron.  One was blue, the other red.  He knew their meaning
in the Berande private code--"What are your instructions?  Shall I
attempt to land boat?"  Tacked on the wall, between the signal locker and
the billiard rules, was the code itself, by which he verified the signal
before making answer.  On the flagstaff gaff a boy hoisted a white flag
over a red, which stood for--"Run to Neal Island for shelter."
That Captain Oleson had been expecting this signal was apparent by the
celerity with which the shackles were knocked out of both anchor-chains.
He slipped his anchors, leaving them buoyed to be picked up in better
weather.  The _Jessie_ swung off under her full staysail, then the
foresail, double-reefed, was run up.  She was away like a racehorse,
clearing Balesuna Shoal with half a cable-length to spare.  Just before
she rounded the point she was swallowed up in a terrific squall that far
out-blew the first.
All that night, while squall after squall smote Berande, uprooting trees,
overthrowing copra-sheds, and rocking the house on its tall piles,
Sheldon slept.  He was unaware of the commotion.  He never wakened.  Nor
did he change his position or dream.  He awoke, a new man.  Furthermore,
he was hungry.  It was over a week since food had passed his lips.  He
drank a glass of condensed cream, thinned with water, and by ten o'clock
he dared to take a cup of beef-tea.  He was cheered, also, by the
situation in the hospital.  Despite the storm there had been but one
death, and there was only one fresh case, while half a dozen boys crawled
weakly away to the barracks.  He wondered if it was the wind that was
blowing the disease away and cleansing the pestilential land.
