A little before three o'clock Mrs. Alexander went into the library to
see that everything was ready. She pulled the window shades high, for
the weather was dark and stormy, and there was little light, even in
the streets. A foot of snow had fallen during the morning, and the wide
space over the river was thick with flying flakes that fell and wreathed
the masses of floating ice. Winifred was standing by the window when
she heard the front door open. She hurried to the hall as Alexander came
stamping in, covered with snow. He kissed her joyfully and brushed away
the snow that fell on her hair.
"I wish I had asked you to meet me at the office and walk home with me,
Winifred. The Common is beautiful. The boys have swept the snow off the
pond and are skating furiously. Did the cyclamens come?"
"An hour ago. What splendid ones! But aren't you frightfully
extravagant?"
"Not for Christmas-time. I'll go upstairs and change my coat. I shall be
down in a moment. Tell Thomas to get everything ready."
When Alexander reappeared, he took his wife's arm and went with her into
the library. "When did the azaleas get here? Thomas has got the white
one in my room."
"I told him to put it there."
"But, I say, it's much the finest of the lot!"
"That's why I had it put there. There is too much color in that room for
a red one, you know."
Bartley began to sort the greens. "It looks very splendid there, but I
feel piggish to have it. However, we really spend more time there than
anywhere else in the house. Will you hand me the holly?"
He climbed up the stepladder, which creaked under his weight, and
began to twist the tough stems of the holly into the frame-work of the
chandelier.
"I forgot to tell you that I had a letter from Wilson, this morning,
explaining his telegram. He is coming on because an old uncle up in
Vermont has conveniently died and left Wilson a little money--something
like ten thousand. He's coming on to settle up the estate. Won't it be
jolly to have him?"
"And how fine that he's come into a little money. I can see him posting
down State Street to the steamship offices. He will get a good many
trips out of that ten thousand. What can have detained him? I expected
him here for luncheon."
"Those trains from Albany are always late. He'll be along sometime this
afternoon. And now, don't you want to go upstairs and lie down for
an hour? You've had a busy morning and I don't want you to be tired
to-night."
After his wife went upstairs Alexander worked energetically at the
greens for a few moments. Then, as he was cutting off a length of
string, he sighed suddenly and sat down, staring out of the window at
the snow. The animation died out of his face, but in his eyes there was
a restless light, a look of apprehension and suspense. He kept clasping
and unclasping his big hands as if he were trying to realize something.
The clock ticked through the minutes of a half-hour and the afternoon
outside began to thicken and darken turbidly. Alexander, since he first
sat down, had not changed his position. He leaned forward, his hands
between his knees, scarcely breathing, as if he were holding himself
away from his surroundings, from the room, and from the very chair in
which he sat, from everything except the wild eddies of snow above the
river on which his eyes were fixed with feverish intentness, as if he
were trying to project himself thither. When at last Lucius Wilson was
announced, Alexander sprang eagerly to his feet and hurried to meet his
old instructor.
