When the story was finished, Miss Burgoyne turned pointedly to
Alexander, and the other men drifted away.
"I thought I saw you in MacConnell's box with Mainhall one evening, but
I supposed you had left town before this."
She looked at him frankly and cordially, as if he were indeed merely an
old friend whom she was glad to meet again.
"No, I've been mooning about here."
Hilda laughed gayly. "Mooning! I see you mooning! You must be the
busiest man in the world. Time and success have done well by you, you
know. You're handsomer than ever and you've gained a grand manner."
Alexander blushed and bowed. "Time and success have been good friends to
both of us. Aren't you tremendously pleased with yourself?"
She laughed again and shrugged her shoulders. "Oh, so-so. But I want to
hear about you. Several years ago I read such a lot in the papers about
the wonderful things you did in Japan, and how the Emperor decorated
you. What was it, Commander of the Order of the Rising Sun? That sounds
like `The Mikado.' And what about your new bridge--in Canada, isn't it,
and it's to be the longest one in the world and has some queer name I
can't remember."
Bartley shook his head and smiled drolly. "Since when have you
been interested in bridges? Or have you learned to be interested in
everything? And is that a part of success?"
"Why, how absurd! As if I were not always interested!" Hilda exclaimed.
"Well, I think we won't talk about bridges here, at any rate." Bartley
looked down at the toe of her yellow slipper which was tapping the rug
impatiently under the hem of her gown. "But I wonder whether you'd think
me impertinent if I asked you to let me come to see you sometime and
tell you about them?"
"Why should I? Ever so many people come on Sunday afternoons."
"I know. Mainhall offered to take me. But you must know that I've been
in London several times within the last few years, and you might very
well think that just now is a rather inopportune time--"
She cut him short. "Nonsense. One of the pleasantest things about
success is that it makes people want to look one up, if that's what you
mean. I'm like every one else--more agreeable to meet when things are
going well with me. Don't you suppose it gives me any pleasure to do
something that people like?"
"Does it? Oh, how fine it all is, your coming on like this! But I didn't
want you to think it was because of that I wanted to see you." He spoke
very seriously and looked down at the floor.
Hilda studied him in wide-eyed astonishment for a moment, and then
broke into a low, amused laugh. "My dear Mr. Alexander, you have strange
delicacies. If you please, that is exactly why you wish to see me. We
understand that, do we not?"
Bartley looked ruffled and turned the seal ring on his little finger
about awkwardly.
