"Hullo, Polly! What'll Fan say to you?" was his polished salutation.
"Don't know, and don't care. Coasting is no harm; I like it, and I'm
going to do it, now I've got a chance; so clear the lul-la!" And
away went independent Polly, with her hair blowing in the wind, and an
expression of genuine enjoyment, which a very red nose did n't damage in
the least.
"Good for you, Polly!" And casting himself upon his sled, with the most
reckless disregard for his ribs, off whizzed Tom after her, and came
alongside just as she reined up "General Grant" on the broad path below.
"Oh, won't you get it when we go home?" cried the young gentleman, even
before he changed his graceful attitude.
"I shan't, if you don't go and tell; but of course you will," added
Polly, sitting still, while an anxious expression began to steal over
her happy face.
"I just won't, then," returned Tom, with the natural perversity of his
tribe.
"If they ask me, I shall tell, of course; if they don't ask, I think
there's no harm in keeping still. I should n't have done it, if I had
n't known my mother was willing; but I don't wish to trouble your mother
by telling of it. Do you think it was very dreadful of me?" asked Polly,
looking at him.
"I think it was downright jolly; and I won't tell, if you don't want me
to. Now, come up and have another," said Tom, heartily.
"Just one more; the little girls want to go, this is their sled."
"Let'em take it, it is n't good for much; and you come on mine.
Mazeppa's a stunner; you see if he is n't."
So Polly tucked herself up in front, Tom hung on behind in some
mysterious manner, and Mazeppa proved that he fully merited his master's
sincere if inelegant praise. They got on capitally now, for Tom was in
his proper sphere, and showed his best side, being civil and gay in the
bluff boy-fashion that was natural to him; while Polly forgot to be shy,
and liked this sort of "toughening" much better than the other. They
laughed and talked, and kept taking "just one more," till the sunshine
was all gone, and the clocks struck dinner-time.
"We shall be late; let's run," said Polly, as they came into the path
after the last coast.
"You just sit still, and I'll get you home in a jiffy;" and before she
could unpack herself, Tom trotted off with her at a fine pace.
"Here's a pair of cheeks! I wish you'd get a color like this, Fanny,"
said Mr. Shaw, as Polly came into the dining-room after smoothing her
hair.
"Your nose is as red as that cranberry sauce," answered Fan, coming out
of the big chair where she had been curled up for an hour or two, deep
in "Lady Audley's Secret."
"So it is," said Polly, shutting one eye to look at the offending
feature. "Never mind; I've had a good time, anyway," she added, giving
a little prance in her chair.
