When the jingle of the last bell had died away, Mr. Bassett said
soberly, as they stood together on the hearth: "Children, we have
special cause to be thankful that the sorrow we expected was changed
into joy, so we'll read a chapter 'fore we go to bed, and give thanks
where thanks is due."
Then Tilly set out the light-stand with the big Bible on it, and a
candle on each side, and all sat quietly in the fire-light, smiling as
they listened with happy hearts to the sweet old words that fit all
times and seasons so beautifully.
When the good-nights were over, and the children in bed, Prue put her
arm around Tilly and whispered tenderly, for she felt her shake, and was
sure she was crying:
"Don't mind about the old stuffin' and puddin', deary--nobody cared, and
Ma said we really did do surprisin' well for such young girls."
The laughter Tilly was trying to smother broke out then, and was so
infectious, Prue could not help joining her, even before she knew the
cause of the merriment.
"I was mad about the mistakes, but don't care enough to cry. I'm
laughing to think how Gad fooled Eph and I found him out. I thought Mose
and Amos would have died over it when I told them, it was so funny,"
explained Tilly, when she got her breath.
"I was so scared that when the first orange hit me, I thought it was a
bullet, and scrabbled into the cradle as fast as I could. It was real
mean to frighten the little ones so," laughed Prue, as Tilly gave a
growl.
Here a smart rap on the wall of the next room caused a sudden lull in
the fun, and Mrs. Bassett's voice was heard, saying warningly, "Girls,
go to sleep immediate, or you'll wake the baby."
"Yes'm," answered two meek voices, and after a few irrepressible
giggles, silence reigned, broken only by an occasional snore from the
boys, or the soft scurry of mice in the buttery, taking their part in
this old-fashioned Thanksgiving.
II.
HOW IT ALL HAPPENED.
It was a small room, with nothing in it but a bed, two chairs, and a big
chest. A few little gowns hung on the wall, and the only picture was the
wintry sky, sparkling with stars, framed by the uncurtained window. But
the moon, pausing to peep, saw something pretty and heard something
pleasant. Two heads in little round nightcaps lay on one pillow, two
pairs of wide-awake blue eyes stared up at the light, and two tongues
were going like mill clappers.
"I'm so glad we got our shirts done in time! It seemed as if we never
should, and I don't think six cents is half enough for a great red
flannel thing with four button-holes--do you?" said one little voice,
rather wearily.
"No; but then we each made four, and fifty cents is a good deal of
money. Are you sorry we didn't keep our quarters for ourselves?" asked
the other voice, with an under-tone of regret in it.
