Still, the traveller dashed forward at the same reckless pace,
regardless alike of the dirt and wet which flew about his head, the
profound darkness of the night, and the probability of encountering
some desperate characters abroad. At every turn and angle, even where
a deviation from the direct course might have been least expected, and
could not possibly be seen until he was close upon it, he guided the
bridle with an unerring hand, and kept the middle of the road. Thus he
sped onward, raising himself in the stirrups, leaning his body forward
until it almost touched the horse's neck, and flourishing his heavy whip
above his head with the fervour of a madman.
There are times when, the elements being in unusual commotion, those who
are bent on daring enterprises, or agitated by great thoughts, whether
of good or evil, feel a mysterious sympathy with the tumult of nature,
and are roused into corresponding violence. In the midst of thunder,
lightning, and storm, many tremendous deeds have been committed; men,
self-possessed before, have given a sudden loose to passions they could
no longer control. The demons of wrath and despair have striven to
emulate those who ride the whirlwind and direct the storm; and man,
lashed into madness with the roaring winds and boiling waters, has
become for the time as wild and merciless as the elements themselves.
Whether the traveller was possessed by thoughts which the fury of the
night had heated and stimulated into a quicker current, or was merely
impelled by some strong motive to reach his journey's end, on he swept
more like a hunted phantom than a man, nor checked his pace until,
arriving at some cross roads, one of which led by a longer route to
the place whence he had lately started, he bore down so suddenly upon a
vehicle which was coming towards him, that in the effort to avoid it he
well-nigh pulled his horse upon his haunches, and narrowly escaped being
thrown.
'Yoho!' cried the voice of a man. 'What's that? Who goes there?'
'A friend!' replied the traveller.
'A friend!' repeated the voice. 'Who calls himself a friend and rides
like that, abusing Heaven's gifts in the shape of horseflesh, and
endangering, not only his own neck (which might be no great matter) but
the necks of other people?'
'You have a lantern there, I see,' said the traveller dismounting, 'lend
it me for a moment. You have wounded my horse, I think, with your shaft
or wheel.'
'Wounded him!' cried the other, 'if I haven't killed him, it's no fault
of yours. What do you mean by galloping along the king's highway like
that, eh?'
'Give me the light,' returned the traveller, snatching it from his hand,
'and don't ask idle questions of a man who is in no mood for talking.'
'If you had said you were in no mood for talking before, I should
perhaps have been in no mood for lighting,' said the voice. 'Hows'ever
as it's the poor horse that's damaged and not you, one of you is welcome
to the light at all events--but it's not the crusty one.'
