"You fo'get I'm no stranger here," she told him. "I know many people.
I've been coming so often with Mme. Duplan. I wanted to see mo' of you,
Mr. Offdean"--
"Then you ought to have managed it; you could have done so. It's--it's
aggravating," he said, far more bitterly than the subject warranted,
"when a man has so set his heart upon something."
"But it was n' anything ver' important," she interposed; and they both
laughed, and got safely over a situation that would soon have been
strained, if not critical.
Waves of happiness were sweeping through the soul and body of the
girl as she sat there in the drowsy afternoon near the man whom she
loved. It mattered not what they talked about, or whether they talked
at all. They were both scintillant with feeling. If Offdean had taken
Euphrasie's hands in his and leaned forward and kissed her lips, it
would have seemed to both only the rational outcome of things that
stirred them. But he did not do this. He knew now that overwhelming
passion was taking possession of him. He had not to heap more coals
upon the fire; on the contrary, it was a moment to put on the brakes,
and he was a young gentleman able to do this when circumstances
required.
However, he held her hand longer than he needed to when he bade her
good-by. For he got entangled in explaining why he should have to go
back to the plantation to see how matters stood there, and he dropped
her hand only when the rambling speech was ended.
He left her sitting by the window in a big brocaded armchair. She drew
the lace curtain aside to watch him pass in the street. He lifted his
hat and smiled when he saw her. Any other man she knew would have done
the same thing, but this simple act caused the blood to surge to her
cheeks. She let the curtain drop, and sat there like one dreaming. Her
eyes, intense with the unnatural light that glowed in them, looked
steadily into vacancy, and her lips stayed parted in the half-smile
that did not want to leave them.
Placide found her thus, a good while afterward, when he came in, full
of bustle, with theatre tickets in his pocket for the last night. She
started up, and went eagerly to meet him.
"W'ere have you been, Placide?" she asked with unsteady voice, placing
her hands on his shoulders with a freedom that was new and strange to
him.
He appeared to her suddenly as a refuge from something, she did not
know what, and she rested her hot cheek against his breast. This made
him mad, and he lifted her face and kissed her passionately upon the
lips.
She crept from his arms after that, and went away to her room, and
locked herself in. Her poor little inexperienced soul was torn and
sore. She knelt down beside her bed, and sobbed a little and prayed a
little. She felt that she had sinned, she did not know exactly in what;
but a fine nature warned her that it was in Placide's kiss.
