What happened inside there was no way of telling, but it is fair to
conclude that the two Folk slipped through the connecting crevice into
the other cave. This crevice was too small to allow for the passage of
Saber-Tooth, and he came out the way he had gone in, unsatisfied and
angry. It was evident that his night's hunting had been unsuccessful and
that he had expected to make a meal off of us. He caught sight of the
two Folk at the other cave-mouth and sprang for them. Of course, they
darted through the passageway into the first cave. He emerged angrier
than ever and snarling.
Pandemonium broke loose amongst the rest of us. All up and down the
great bluff, we crowded the crevices and outside ledges, and we were
all chattering and shrieking in a thousand keys. And we were all making
faces--snarling faces; this was an instinct with us. We were as angry
as Saber-Tooth, though our anger was allied with fear. I remember that I
shrieked and made faces with the best of them. Not only did they set the
example, but I felt the urge from within me to do the same things they
were doing. My hair was bristling, and I was convulsed with a fierce,
unreasoning rage.
For some time old Saber-Tooth continued dashing in and out of first the
one cave and then the other. But the two Folk merely slipped back and
forth through the connecting crevice and eluded him. In the meantime the
rest of us up the bluff had proceeded to action. Every time he appeared
outside we pelted him with rocks. At first we merely dropped them on
him, but we soon began to whiz them down with the added force of our
muscles.
This bombardment drew Saber-Tooth's attention to us and made him angrier
than ever. He abandoned his pursuit of the two Folk and sprang up the
bluff toward the rest of us, clawing at the crumbling rock and snarling
as he clawed his upward way. At this awful sight, the last one of us
sought refuge inside our caves. I know this, because I peeped out and
saw the whole bluff-side deserted, save for Saber-Tooth, who had lost
his footing and was sliding and falling down.
I called out the cry of encouragement, and again the bluff was covered
by the screaming horde and the stones were falling faster than ever.
Saber-Tooth was frantic with rage. Time and again he assaulted the
bluff. Once he even gained the first crevice-entrances before he fell
back, but was unable to force his way inside. With each upward rush he
made, waves of fear surged over us. At first, at such times, most of us
dashed inside; but some remained outside to hammer him with stones, and
soon all of us remained outside and kept up the fusillade.
Never was so masterly a creature so completely baffled. It hurt his
pride terribly, thus to be outwitted by the small and tender Folk. He
stood on the ground and looked up at us, snarling, lashing his tail,
snapping at the stones that fell near to him. Once I whizzed down a
stone, and just at the right moment he looked up. It caught him full on
the end of his nose, and he went straight up in the air, all four feet
of him, roaring and caterwauling, what of the hurt and surprise.
