Bouvard who had been closely watching him, at the end of a quarter of an
hour came up to his side.
"Barberou, I believe?"
"Bouvard!" exclaimed the man in the cap, and they embraced each other.
Barberou had in the course of twenty years experienced many changes of
fortune. He had been editor of a newspaper, an insurance agent, and
manager of an oyster-bed.
"I will tell you all about it," he said.
At last, having returned to his original calling, he was travelling for
a Bordeaux house, and Gouttman, who took care of the diocese, disposed
of wines for him to the ecclesiastics. "But," he hurriedly added, "you
must pardon me one minute; then I shall be at your service."
He was proceeding with the examination of the accounts, and all of a
sudden he jumped up excitedly.
"What! two thousand?"
"Certainly."
"Ha! it's wrong, that's what it is!"
"What do you say?"
"I say that I've seen Herambert myself," replied Barberou in a passion.
"The invoice makes it four thousand. No humbug!"
The dealer was not put out of countenance.
"Well, it discharges you--what next?"
Barberou, as he stood there with his face at first pale and then purple,
impressed Bouvard and Pecuchet with the apprehension that he was about
to strangle Gouttman.
He sat down, folded his arms, and said:
"You are a vile rascal, you must admit."
"No insults, Monsieur Barberou. There are witnesses. Be careful!"
"I'll bring an action against you!"
"Ta! ta! ta!" Then having fastened together his books, Gouttman lifted
the brim of his hat: "I wish you luck on't!" With these words he went
off.
Barberou explained the facts: For a credit of a thousand francs doubled
by a succession of renewals with interest, he had delivered to Gouttman
three thousand francs' worth of wines. This would pay his debt with a
profit of a thousand francs; but, on the contrary, he owed three
thousand on the transaction! His employers might dismiss him; they might
even prosecute him!
"Blackguard! robber! dirty Jew! And this fellow dines at priests'
houses! Besides, everything that touches the clerical headpiece----"
And he went on railing against the priests, and he struck the table with
such violence that the little statue was near falling.
"Gently!" said Bouvard.
"Hold on! What's this here?" And Barberou having removed the covering of
the little Virgin: "A pilgrimage bauble! Yours?"
"'Tis mine," said Pecuchet.
"You grieve me," returned Barberou; "but I'll give you a wrinkle on that
point. Don't be afraid." And as one must be a philosopher, and as there
is no use in fretting, he invited them to come and lunch with him.
The three sat down together at table.
Barberou was agreeable, recalled old times, took hold of the
maid-servant's waist, and wished to measure the breadth of Bouvard's
stomach. He would soon see them again, and would bring them a droll
book.
The idea of his visit was rather pleasant to them. They chatted about it
in the omnibus for an hour, while the horse was trotting. Then Pecuchet
shut his eyes. Bouvard also relapsed into silence. Internally he felt an
inclination towards religion.
