Presently a knock on the outer door made them look up; but Evelina, the
first on her feet, said promptly: "Sit still. I'll see who it is."
Ann Eliza was glad to sit still: the baby's petticoat that she was
stitching shook in her fingers.
"Sister, here's Mr. Ramy come to look at the clock," said Evelina, a
moment later, in the high drawl she cultivated before strangers; and
a shortish man with a pale bearded face and upturned coat-collar came
stiffly into the room.
Ann Eliza let her work fall as she stood up. "You're very welcome, I'm
sure, Mr. Ramy. It's real kind of you to call."
"Nod ad all, ma'am." A tendency to illustrate Grimm's law in the
interchange of his consonants betrayed the clockmaker's nationality, but
he was evidently used to speaking English, or at least the particular
branch of the vernacular with which the Bunner sisters were familiar.
"I don't like to led any clock go out of my store without being sure it
gives satisfaction," he added.
"Oh--but we were satisfied," Ann Eliza assured him.
"But I wasn't, you see, ma'am," said Mr. Ramy looking slowly about the
room, "nor I won't be, not till I see that clock's going all right."
"May I assist you off with your coat, Mr. Ramy?" Evelina interposed. She
could never trust Ann Eliza to remember these opening ceremonies.
"Thank you, ma'am," he replied, and taking his thread-bare over-coat and
shabby hat she laid them on a chair with the gesture she imagined the
lady with the puffed sleeves might make use of on similar occasions.
Ann Eliza's social sense was roused, and she felt that the next act
of hospitality must be hers. "Won't you suit yourself to a seat?" she
suggested. "My sister will reach down the clock; but I'm sure she's all
right again. She's went beautiful ever since you fixed her."
"Dat's good," said Mr. Ramy. His lips parted in a smile which showed a
row of yellowish teeth with one or two gaps in it; but in spite of this
disclosure Ann Eliza thought his smile extremely pleasant: there was
something wistful and conciliating in it which agreed with the pathos
of his sunken cheeks and prominent eyes. As he took the lamp, the light
fell on his bulging forehead and wide skull thinly covered with grayish
hair. His hands were pale and broad, with knotty joints and square
finger-tips rimmed with grime; but his touch was as light as a woman's.
"Well, ladies, dat clock's all right," he pronounced.
"I'm sure we're very much obliged to you," said Evelina, throwing a
glance at her sister.
"Oh," Ann Eliza murmured, involuntarily answering the admonition.
She selected a key from the bunch that hung at her waist with her
cutting-out scissors, and fitting it into the lock of the cupboard,
brought out the cherry brandy and three old-fashioned glasses engraved
with vine-wreaths.
"It's a very cold night," she said, "and maybe you'd like a sip of this
cordial. It was made a great while ago by our grandmother."
