"Baptized yet?" became his stereotyped question, as he reached out his
terrible hands.
Several score lay down in the snow in a long row, while many others
knelt in mock humility, scooping snow upon their heads and claiming the
rite accomplished.  But a group of five stood upright, backwoodsmen and
frontiersmen, they, eager to contest any man's birthday.
Graduates of the hardest of man-handling schools, veterans of
multitudes of rough-and-tumble battles, men of blood and sweat and
endurance, they nevertheless lacked one thing that Daylight possessed
in high degree--namely, an almost perfect brain and muscular
coordination.  It was simple, in its way, and no virtue of his.  He had
been born with this endowment.  His nerves carried messages more
quickly than theirs; his mental processes, culminating in acts of will,
were quicker than theirs; his muscles themselves, by some immediacy of
chemistry, obeyed the messages of his will quicker than theirs.  He was
so made, his muscles were high-power explosives.  The levers of his
body snapped into play like the jaws of steel traps.  And in addition
to all this, his was that super-strength that is the dower of but one
human in millions--a strength depending not on size but on degree, a
supreme organic excellence residing in the stuff of the muscles
themselves.  Thus, so swiftly could he apply a stress, that, before an
opponent could become aware and resist, the aim of the stress had been
accomplished.  In turn, so swiftly did he become aware of a stress
applied to him, that he saved himself by resistance or by delivering a
lightning counter-stress.
"It ain't no use you-all standing there," Daylight addressed the
waiting group.  "You-all might as well get right down and take your
baptizing.  You-all might down me any other day in the year, but on my
birthday I want you-all to know I'm the best man.  Is that Pat
Hanrahan's mug looking hungry and willing?  Come on, Pat."  Pat
Hanrahan, ex-bare-knuckle-prize fighter and roughhouse-expert, stepped
forth.  The two men came against each other in grips, and almost before
he had exerted himself the Irishman found himself in the merciless vise
of a half-Nelson that buried him head and shoulders in the snow.  Joe
Hines, ex-lumber-jack, came down with an impact equal to a fall from a
two-story building--his overthrow accomplished by a cross-buttock,
delivered, he claimed, before he was ready.
There was nothing exhausting in all this to Daylight.  He did not heave
and strain through long minutes.  No time, practically, was occupied.
His body exploded abruptly and terrifically in one instant, and on the
next instant was relaxed.  Thus, Doc Watson, the gray-bearded, iron
bodied man without a past, a fighting terror himself, was overthrown in
the fraction of a second preceding his own onslaught.  As he was in the
act of gathering himself for a spring, Daylight was upon him, and with
such fearful suddenness as to crush him backward and down.  Olaf
Henderson, receiving his cue from this, attempted to take Daylight
unaware, rushing upon him from one side as he stooped with extended
hand to help Doc Watson up.  Daylight dropped on his hands and knees,
receiving in his side Olaf's knees.  Olaf's momentum carried him clear
over the obstruction in a long, flying fall.  Before he could rise,
Daylight had whirled him over on his back and was rubbing his face and
ears with snow and shoving handfuls down his neck.  "Ay ban yust as
good a man as you ban, Daylight," Olaf spluttered, as he pulled himself
to his feet; "but by Yupiter, I ban navver see a grip like that."
French Louis was the last of the five, and he had seen enough to make
him cautious.  He circled and baffled for a full minute before coming
to grips; and for another full minute they strained and reeled without
either winning the advantage.  And then, just as the contest was
becoming interesting, Daylight effected one of his lightning shifts,
changing all stresses and leverages and at the same time delivering one
of his muscular explosions.  French Louis resisted till his huge frame
crackled, and then, slowly, was forced over and under and downward.
