   2 Cit. And 'twere to giue againe: but 'tis no matter.
Exeunt. Enter two other Citizens.
  Coriol. Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune
of your voices, that I may bee Consull, I haue heere the
Customarie Gowne
   1. You haue deserued Nobly of your Countrey, and
you haue not deserued Nobly
   Coriol. Your aenigma
   1. You haue bin a scourge to her enemies, you haue
bin a Rod to her Friends, you haue not indeede loued the
Common people
   Coriol. You should account mee the more Vertuous,
that I haue not bin common in my Loue, I will sir flatter
my sworne Brother the people to earne a deerer estimation
of them, 'tis a condition they account gentle: & since
the wisedome of their choice, is rather to haue my Hat,
then my Heart, I will practice the insinuating nod, and be
off to them most counterfetly, that is sir, I will counterfet
the bewitchment of some popular man, and giue it
bountifull to the desirers: Therefore beseech you, I may
be Consull
   2. Wee hope to finde you our friend: and therefore
giue you our voices heartily
   1. You haue receyued many wounds for your Countrey
   Coriol. I wil not Seale your knowledge with shewing
them. I will make much of your voyces, and so trouble
you no farther
   Both. The Gods giue you ioy Sir heartily
   Coriol. Most sweet Voyces:
Better it is to dye, better to sterue,
Then craue the higher, which first we do deserue.
Why in this Wooluish tongue should I stand heere,
To begge of Hob and Dicke, that does appeere
Their needlesse Vouches: Custome calls me too't.
What Custome wills in all things, should we doo't?
The Dust on antique Time would lye vnswept,
And mountainous Error be too highly heapt,
For Truth to o're-peere. Rather then foole it so,
Let the high Office and the Honor go
To one that would doe thus. I am halfe through,
The one part suffered, the other will I doe.
Enter three Citizens more.
Here come moe Voyces.
Your Voyces? for your Voyces I haue sought,
Watcht for your Voyces: for your Voyces, beare
Of Wounds, two dozen odde: Battailes thrice six
I haue seene, and heard of: for your Voyces,
Haue done many things, some lesse, some more:
Your Voyces? Indeed I would be Consull
   1.Cit. Hee ha's done Nobly, and cannot goe without
any honest mans Voyce
   2.Cit. Therefore let him be Consull: the Gods giue him
ioy, and make him good friend to the People
   All. Amen, Amen. God saue thee, Noble Consull
   Corio. Worthy Voyces.
Enter Menenius, with Brutus and Scicinius.
  Mene. You haue stood your Limitation:
And the Tribunes endue you with the Peoples Voyce,
Remaines, that in th' Officiall Markes inuested,
You anon doe meet the Senate
   Corio. Is this done?
  Scicin. The Custome of Request you haue discharg'd:
The People doe admit you, and are summon'd
To meet anon, vpon your approbation
   Corio. Where? at the Senate-house?
  Scicin. There, Coriolanus
