Plato does not add the further observation, that the etymological
meaning of words is in process of being lost. If at first framed on
a principle of intelligibility, they would gradually cease to be
intelligible, like those of a foreign language, he is willing to admit
that they are subject to many changes, and put on many disguises. He
acknowledges that the 'poor creature' imitation is supplemented by
another 'poor creature,'--convention. But he does not see that 'habit
and repute,' and their relation to other words, are always exercising
an influence over them. Words appear to be isolated, but they are really
the parts of an organism which is always being reproduced. They are
refined by civilization, harmonized by poetry, emphasized by literature,
technically applied in philosophy and art; they are used as symbols on
the border-ground of human knowledge; they receive a fresh impress from
individual genius, and come with a new force and association to every
lively-minded person. They are fixed by the simultaneous utterance of
millions, and yet are always imperceptibly changing;--not the inventors
of language, but writing and speaking, and particularly great writers,
or works which pass into the hearts of nations, Homer, Shakespear,
Dante, the German or English Bible, Kant and Hegel, are the makers of
them in later ages. They carry with them the faded recollection of their
own past history; the use of a word in a striking and familiar passage
gives a complexion to its use everywhere else, and the new use of an
old and familiar phrase has also a peculiar power over us. But these and
other subtleties of language escaped the observation of Plato. He is not
aware that the languages of the world are organic structures, and that
every word in them is related to every other; nor does he conceive of
language as the joint work of the speaker and the hearer, requiring in
man a faculty not only of expressing his thoughts but of understanding
those of others.
On the other hand, he cannot be justly charged with a desire to frame
language on artificial principles. Philosophers have sometimes dreamed
of a technical or scientific language, in words which should have
fixed meanings, and stand in the same relation to one another as the
substances which they denote. But there is no more trace of this in
Plato than there is of a language corresponding to the ideas; nor,
indeed, could the want of such a language be felt until the sciences
were far more developed. Those who would extend the use of technical
phraseology beyond the limits of science or of custom, seem to forget
that freedom and suggestiveness and the play of association are
essential characteristics of language. The great master has shown how
he regarded pedantic distinctions of words or attempts to confine their
meaning in the satire on Prodicus in the Protagoras.
(5) In addition to these anticipations of the general principles of
philology, we may note also a few curious observations on words and
sounds. 'The Eretrians say sklerotes for skleroter;' 'the Thessalians
call Apollo Amlos;' 'The Phrygians have the words pur, udor, kunes
slightly changed;' 'there is an old Homeric word emesato, meaning "he
contrived";' 'our forefathers, and especially the women, who are most
conservative of the ancient language, loved the letters iota and delta;
but now iota is changed into eta and epsilon, and delta into zeta;
this is supposed to increase the grandeur of the sound.' Plato was
very willing to use inductive arguments, so far as they were within his
reach; but he would also have assigned a large influence to chance. Nor
indeed is induction applicable to philology in the same degree as to
most of the physical sciences. For after we have pushed our researches
to the furthest point, in language as in all the other creations of the
human mind, there will always remain an element of exception or accident
or free-will, which cannot be eliminated.
