Neither is Plato wrong in supposing that an element of design and art
enters into language. The creative power abating is supplemented by a
mechanical process. 'Languages are not made but grow,' but they are made
as well as grow; bursting into life like a plant or a flower, they
are also capable of being trained and improved and engrafted upon one
another. The change in them is effected in earlier ages by musical and
euphonic improvements, at a later stage by the influence of grammar
and logic, and by the poetical and literary use of words. They develope
rapidly in childhood, and when they are full grown and set they may
still put forth intellectual powers, like the mind in the body, or
rather we may say that the nobler use of language only begins when the
frame-work is complete. The savage or primitive man, in whom the natural
instinct is strongest, is also the greatest improver of the forms of
language. He is the poet or maker of words, as in civilised ages the
dialectician is the definer or distinguisher of them. The latter calls
the second world of abstract terms into existence, as the former has
created the picture sounds which represent natural objects or processes.
Poetry and philosophy--these two, are the two great formative principles
of language, when they have passed their first stage, of which, as
of the first invention of the arts in general, we only entertain
conjecture. And mythology is a link between them, connecting the visible
and invisible, until at length the sensuous exterior falls away, and the
severance of the inner and outer world, of the idea and the object of
sense, becomes complete. At a later period, logic and grammar, sister
arts, preserve and enlarge the decaying instinct of language, by rule
and method, which they gather from analysis and observation.
(2) There is no trace in any of Plato's writings that he was acquainted
with any language but Greek. Yet he has conceived very truly the
relation of Greek to foreign languages, which he is led to consider,
because he finds that many Greek words are incapable of explanation.
Allowing a good deal for accident, and also for the fancies of the
conditores linguae Graecae, there is an element of which he is unable to
give an account. These unintelligible words he supposes to be of foreign
origin, and to have been derived from a time when the Greeks were either
barbarians, or in close relations to the barbarians. Socrates is aware
that this principle is liable to great abuse; and, like the 'Deus ex
machina,' explains nothing. Hence he excuses himself for the employment
of such a device, and remarks that in foreign words there is still
a principle of correctness, which applies equally both to Greeks and
barbarians.
(3) But the greater number of primary words do not admit of derivation
from foreign languages; they must be resolved into the letters out of
which they are composed, and therefore the letters must have a meaning.
The framers of language were aware of this; they observed that alpha was
adapted to express size; eta length; omicron roundness; nu inwardness;
rho accent rush or roar; lambda liquidity; gamma lambda the detention of
the liquid or slippery element; delta and tau binding; phi, psi, sigma,
xi, wind and cold, and so on. Plato's analysis of the letters of the
alphabet shows a wonderful insight into the nature of language. He does
not expressively distinguish between mere imitation and the symbolical
use of sound to express thought, but he recognises in the examples which
he gives both modes of imitation. Gesture is the mode which a deaf and
dumb person would take of indicating his meaning. And language is the
gesture of the tongue; in the use of the letter rho accent, to express
a rushing or roaring, or of omicron to express roundness, there is a
direct imitation; while in the use of the letter alpha to express size,
or of eta to express length, the imitation is symbolical. The use of
analogous or similar sounds, in order to express similar analogous
ideas, seems to have escaped him.
