"The Duchess, who had grown pale, nevertheless smiled playfully at this.
'As to commemorating my piety," she said, 'I recognize there one of your
excellency's pleasantries--'
"'A pleasantry?' the Duke interrupted; and he made a sign to the men, who
had now reached the threshold of the chapel. In an instant the wrappings
fell from the figure, and there knelt the Duchess to the life. A cry of
wonder rose from all, but the Duchess herself stood whiter than the marble.
"'You will see,' says the Duke, 'this is no pleasantry, but a triumph
of the incomparable Bernini's chisel. The likeness was done from your
miniature portrait by the divine Elisabetta Sirani, which I sent to the
master some six months ago, with what results all must admire.'
"'Six months!' cried the Duchess, and seemed about to fall; but his
excellency caught her by the hand.
"'Nothing,' he said, 'could better please me than the excessive emotion you
display, for true piety is ever modest, and your thanks could not take a
form that better became you. And now,' says he to the men, 'let the image
be put in place.'
"By this, life seemed to have returned to the Duchess, and she answered him
with a deep reverence. 'That I should be overcome by so unexpected a grace,
your excellency admits to be natural; but what honors you accord it is my
privilege to accept, and I entreat only that in mercy to my modesty the
image be placed in the remotest part of the chapel.'
"At that the Duke darkened. 'What! You would have this masterpiece of a
renowned chisel, which, I disguise not, cost me the price of a good
vineyard in gold pieces, you would have it thrust out of sight like the
work of a village stonecutter?'
"'It is my semblance, not the sculptor's work, I desire to conceal.'
"'It you are fit for my house, Madam, you are fit for God's, and entitled
to the place of honor in both. Bring the statue forward, you dawdlers!' he
called out to the men.
"The Duchess fell back submissively. 'You are right, sir, as always; but I
would at least have the image stand on the left of the altar, that, looking
up, it may behold your excellency's seat in the tribune.'
"'A pretty thought, Madam, for which I thank you; but I design before long
to put my companion image on the other side of the altar; and the wife's
place, as you know, is at her husband's right hand.'
"'True, my lord--but, again, if my poor presentment is to have the
unmerited honor of kneeling beside yours, why not place both before the
altar, where it is our habit to pray in life?'
"'And where, Madam, should we kneel if they took our places? Besides,' says
the Duke, still speaking very blandly, 'I have a more particular purpose
in placing your image over the entrance to the crypt; for not only would I
thereby mark your special devotion to the blessed saint who rests there,
but, by sealing up the opening in the pavement, would assure the perpetual
preservation of that holy martyr's bones, which hitherto have been too
thoughtlessly exposed to sacrilegious attempts.'
