'Well!' said Mrs Chick, with a sweet smile, 'after this, I forgive Fanny
everything!'
It was a declaration in a Christian spirit, and Mrs Chick felt that it
did her good. Not that she had anything particular to forgive in her
sister-in-law, nor indeed anything at all, except her having married her
brother--in itself a species of audacity--and her having, in the course
of events, given birth to a girl instead of a boy: which, as Mrs Chick
had frequently observed, was not quite what she had expected of her, and
was not a pleasant return for all the attention and distinction she had
met with.
Mr Dombey being hastily summoned out of the room at this moment, the two
ladies were left alone together. Miss Tox immediately became spasmodic.
'I knew you would admire my brother. I told you so beforehand, my dear,'
said Louisa. Miss Tox's hands and eyes expressed how much. 'And as to
his property, my dear!'
'Ah!' said Miss Tox, with deep feeling.
'Im-mense!'
'But his deportment, my dear Louisa!' said Miss Tox. 'His presence! His
dignity! No portrait that I have ever seen of anyone has been half
so replete with those qualities. Something so stately, you know: so
uncompromising: so very wide across the chest: so upright! A pecuniary
Duke of York, my love, and nothing short of it!' said Miss Tox. 'That's
what I should designate him.'
'Why, my dear Paul!' exclaimed his sister, as he returned, 'you look
quite pale! There's nothing the matter?'
'I am sorry to say, Louisa, that they tell me that Fanny--'
'Now, my dear Paul,' returned his sister rising, 'don't believe it. Do
not allow yourself to receive a turn unnecessarily. Remember of what
importance you are to society, and do not allow yourself to be worried
by what is so very inconsiderately told you by people who ought to know
better. Really I'm surprised at them.'
'I hope I know, Louisa,' said Mr Dombey, stiffly, 'how to bear myself
before the world.'
'Nobody better, my dear Paul. Nobody half so well. They would be
ignorant and base indeed who doubted it.'
'Ignorant and base indeed!' echoed Miss Tox softly.
'But,' pursued Louisa, 'if you have any reliance on my experience, Paul,
you may rest assured that there is nothing wanting but an effort on
Fanny's part. And that effort,' she continued, taking off her bonnet,
and adjusting her cap and gloves, in a business-like manner, 'she must
be encouraged, and really, if necessary, urged to make. Now, my dear
Paul, come upstairs with me.'
Mr Dombey, who, besides being generally influenced by his sister for the
reason already mentioned, had really faith in her as an experienced
and bustling matron, acquiesced; and followed her, at once, to the sick
chamber.
The lady lay upon her bed as he had left her, clasping her little
daughter to her breast. The child clung close about her, with the same
intensity as before, and never raised her head, or moved her soft cheek
from her mother's face, or looked on those who stood around, or spoke,
or moved, or shed a tear.
