“He is in Melbourne now.”
She had consented to go away, to leave her home. Was that wise? She
tried to weigh each side of the question. In her home anyway she had
shelter and food; she had those whom she had known all her life about
her. Of course she had to work hard, both in the house and at business.
What would they say of her in the Stores when they found out that she
had run away with a fellow? Say she was a fool, perhaps; and her place
would be filled up by advertisement. Miss Gavan would be glad. She
had always had an edge on her, especially whenever there were people
listening.
“Miss Hill, don’t you see these ladies are waiting?”
“Look lively, Miss Hill, please.”
She would not cry many tears at leaving the Stores.
But in her new home, in a distant unknown country, it would not be like
that. Then she would be married--she, Eveline. People would treat her
with respect then. She would not be treated as her mother had been. Even
now, though she was over nineteen, she sometimes felt herself in danger
of her father’s violence. She knew it was that that had given her the
palpitations. When they were growing up he had never gone for her like
he used to go for Harry and Ernest, because she was a girl; but latterly
he had begun to threaten her and say what he would do to her only for
her dead mother’s sake. And now she had nobody to protect her. Ernest
was dead and Harry, who was in the church decorating business, was
nearly always down somewhere in the country. Besides, the invariable
squabble for money on Saturday nights had begun to weary her
unspeakably. She always gave her entire wages--seven shillings--and
Harry always sent up what he could but the trouble was to get any money
from her father. He said she used to squander the money, that she had
no head, that he wasn’t going to give her his hard-earned money to throw
about the streets, and much more, for he was usually fairly bad of a
Saturday night. In the end he would give her the money and ask her had
she any intention of buying Sunday’s dinner. Then she had to rush out
as quickly as she could and do her marketing, holding her black leather
purse tightly in her hand as she elbowed her way through the crowds and
returning home late under her load of provisions. She had hard work to
keep the house together and to see that the two young children who had
been left to her charge went to school regularly and got their meals
regularly. It was hard work--a hard life--but now that she was about to
leave it she did not find it a wholly undesirable life.
She was about to explore another life with Frank. Frank was very kind,
manly, open-hearted. She was to go away with him by the night-boat to
be his wife and to live with him in Buenos Ayres where he had a home
waiting for her. How well she remembered the first time she had seen
him; he was lodging in a house on the main road where she used to visit.
It seemed a few weeks ago. He was standing at the gate, his peaked cap
pushed back on his head and his hair tumbled forward over a face of
bronze. Then they had come to know each other. He used to meet her
outside the Stores every evening and see her home. He took her to see
_The Bohemian Girl_ and she felt elated as she sat in an unaccustomed
part of the theatre with him. He was awfully fond of music and sang a
little. People knew that they were courting and, when he sang about the
lass that loves a sailor, she always felt pleasantly confused. He used
to call her Poppens out of fun. First of all it had been an excitement
for her to have a fellow and then she had begun to like him. He had
tales of distant countries. He had started as a deck boy at a pound a
month on a ship of the Allan Line going out to Canada. He told her
the names of the ships he had been on and the names of the different
services. He had sailed through the Straits of Magellan and he told her
stories of the terrible Patagonians. He had fallen on his feet in Buenos
Ayres, he said, and had come over to the old country just for a holiday.
Of course, her father had found out the affair and had forbidden her to
have anything to say to him.
