But it was naturally not enough simply to reprint without further
ado the old original edition, for this is, as already pointed
out, nothing but a copy of my imperfect and uncorrected concept
or of the very first rough draft.  In the rereading of it I
remembered clearly what I originally had had in mind, and I saw
moreover that the form practically nowhere gave a satisfactory
rendering of what I had wished.
I determined therefore to revise this drama of my youth in a way
in which I believe even at that time I should have been able to
do it had the time been at my disposal and the circumstances more
favorable for me.  The ideas, the conceptions, and the
development of the whole, I have not on the other hand altered.
The book has remained the original; only now it appears in a
complete form.
With this in mind I pray that my friends in Scandinavia and
elsewhere will receive it; I pray that they will receive it as a
greeting from me at the close of a period which to me has been
full of changes and rich in contradictions.  Much of what I
twenty-five years ago dreamed has been realized, even though not
in the manner nor as soon as I then hoped.  Yet I believe now
that it was best for me thus; I do not wish that any of that
which lies between should have been untried, and if I look back
upon what I have lived through I do so with thanks for everything
and thanks to all.
  HENRIK IBSEN.
_Dresden, February, 1875._
                *       *       *       *       *
                       DRAMATIS PERSONAE
LUCIUS CATILINE     A noble Roman.
AURELIA             His wife.
FURIA               A vestal.
CURIUS              A youth related to Catiline.
MANLIUS             An old warrior.
LENTULUS            Young and noble Roman.
GABINIUS              "    "    "    "
STATILIUS             "    "    "    "
COEPARIUS             "    "    "    "
CETHEGUS              "    "    "    "
AMBIORIX            Ambassador of the Allobroges.
OLLOVICO              "    "    "    "
                    An old MAN.
                    PRIESTESSES and SERVANTS in the Temple of
                    Vesta.
                    GLADIATORS and WARRIORS.
                    ESCORT of the Allobroges.
                    Sulla's GHOST.
                *       *       *       *       *
                             SETTING
The first and second acts are laid in and near Rome, the third
act in Etruria.
                *       *       *       *       *
FIRST ACT
[The Flaminian Way outside of Rome.  Off the road a
wooded hillside.  In the background loom the walls and
the heights of the city.  It is evening.]
[CATILINE stands on the hill among the bushes, leaning
against a tree.]
CATILINE.  I must!  I must!  A voice deep in my soul
Urges me on,--and I will heed its call.
Courage I have and strength for something better,
Something far nobler than this present life,--
A series of unbridled dissipations--!
No, no; they do not satisfy the yearning soul.
CATILINE.  I rave and rave,--long only to forget.
'Tis past now,--all is past!  Life has no aim.
CATILINE.  [After a pause.]
And what became of all my youthful dreams?
Like flitting summer clouds they disappeared,
Left naught behind but sorrow and remorse;--
Each daring hope in turn fate robbed me of.
