CETHEGUS.  True;  but the thought of all your many friends
Whom you can save from ruin and disgrace--?
You know, we shall ere long be driven to take
The beggars' staff because of our wild living.
CATILINE.  Then stop in season; that is my resolve.
LENTULUS.  What, Catiline,--now you intend to change
Your mode of life?  Ha, ha! you surely jest?
CATILINE.  I am in earnest,--by the mighty gods!
CETHEGUS.  Then there is nothing we can do with him.
Come, Lentulus, the others we'll inform
What answer he has given.  We shall find
The merry company with Bibulus.
CATILINE.  With Bibulus?  How many a merry night
We have caroused at Bibulus' table!
Now is the tempest of my wild life ended;
Ere dawns the day I shall have left the city.
LENTULUS.  What is all this?
CETHEGUS.  You mean to go away?
CATILINE.  This very night my wife and I together
Shall bid farewell to Rome forevermore.
In quiet Gaul we two shall found a home;--
The land I cultivate shall nourish us.
CETHEGUS.  You will forsake the city, Catiline?
CATILINE.  I will; I must!  Disgrace here weighs me down.
Courage I have to bear my poverty,
But in each Roman face to read disdain
And frank contempt--!  No, no; that is too much!
In Gaul I'll live in quiet solitude;
There shall I soon forget my former self,
Dull all my longings for the greater things,
And as the vaguest dream recall the past.
LENTULUS.  Then fare you well; may fortune follow you!
CETHEGUS.  Remember us with kindness, Catiline,
As we shall you remember!  To our brothers
We will relate this new and strange resolve.
CATILINE.  Then give them all a brother's hearty greeting!
[LENTULUS and CETHEGUS leave.]
[AURELIA has entered from the side, hut-stops frightened at the
sight of those who are leaving; when they are gone she
approaches CATILINE.]
AURELIA.  [Gently reprimanding.]
Again these stormy comrades in your house?
O Catiline--!
CATILINE.  This was their final visit.
I bade them all farewell.  Now every bond
Forevermore is broken that bound me fast
And fettered me to Rome.
AURELIA.  I've gathered up
Our bit of property.  Not much perhaps;--
Yet, Catiline, enough for our contentment.
CATILINE.  [Engrossed in thought.]
More than enough for me who squandered all.
AURELIA.  Oh, brood no more on things we can not change;--
Forget what--
CATILINE.  Happy he who could forget,--
Who could the memory tear from out his soul,
The many hopes, the goal of all desires.
Ah, time is needed ere I reach that state;
But I shall struggle--
AURELIA.  I shall help you strive;
You shall be comforted for all your loss.
Yet we must leave as soon as possible.
Here life calls to you with a tempter's voice.
Is it not so,--we go this very night?
CATILINE.  Yes, yes,--we leave this very night, Aurelia!
AURELIA.  The little money left I've gathered up;
And for the journey it will be enough.
CATILINE.  Good!  I shall sell my sword and buy a spade.
What value henceforth is a sword to me?
