CATILINE.  Must I despise myself because my soul
No longer harbors selfish aspirations?
FURIA.  You stand here at a cross-road in your life;
Yonder a dull, inactive course awaits you,--
A half-way something, neither sleep nor death;--
Before you, on the other hand, you see
A sovereign's throne.  Then choose, my Catiline!
CATILINE.  You tempt me and allure me to destruction.
FURIA.  Cast but the die,--and in your hand is placed
Forevermore the welfare of proud Rome.
Glory and might your silent fate conceals,
And yet you falter,--dare not lift a hand!
You journey yonder to the forests, where
Each longing that you cherished will be quenched.
Ah, tell me, Catiline, is there no trace
Of thirst for glory left within your heart?
And must this princely soul, for triumphs born,
Vanish unknown in yonder nameless desert?
Hence, then!  But know that thus you lose forever
What here you could by daring deeds attain.
CATILINE.  Go on, go on!
FURIA.  With trembling and with fear
The future generations will recall
Your fate.  Your life was all a daring game;--
Yet in the lustre of atonement it would shine,
Known to all men, if with a mighty hand
You fought your way straight through this surging
throng,--
If the dark night of thraldom through your rule
Gave way before a new-born day of freedom,--
If at some time you--
CATILINE.  Hold!  Ah, you have touched
The string that quivers deepest in my soul.
Your every word sounds like a ringing echo
Of what my heart has whispered day and night.
FURIA.  Now, Catiline, I know you once again!
CATILINE.  I shall not go!  You have recalled to life
My youthful zeal, my manhood's full-grown longings.
Yes, I shall be a light to fallen Rome,--
Daze them with fear like some erratic star!
You haughty wretches,--you shall soon discover
You have not humbled me, though for a time
I weakened in the heat of battle!
FURIA.  Listen!
Whatever be the will of fate,--whatever
The mighty gods decree, we must obey.
Just so!  My hate is gone;--fate thus decreed,
And so it had to be!  Give me your hand
In solemn compact!--Ah, you hesitate?
You will not?
CATILINE.  Will--?  I gaze upon your eyes:
They flash,--like lightning in the gloom of night.
Now did you smile!  Just so I've often pictured
Nemesis--
FURIA.  What?  Herself you wish to see,--
Then look within.  Have you forgot your oath?
CATILINE.  No, I remember;--yet you seem to me
A Nemesis--
FURIA.  I am an image born
From your own soul.
CATILINE.  [Meditating.]  What is all this you say?
I sense but vaguely what I fail to grasp;
I glimpse mysterious, strangely clouded visions,--
But can not understand.  I grope in darkness!
FURIA.  It must be dark here.  Darkness is our realm;--
In darkness is our rule.  Give me your hand
In solemn pledge!
CATILINE.  [Wildly.]  O lovely Nemesis,--
My shadow,--image of my very soul,--
Here is my hand in everlasting compact.
[He seizes her hand violently; she looks at him with a stern
smile.]
