CETHEGUS.  Well, as you please; but I will not forego
My own desires; these, while the day is fair,
To their full measure I will satisfy.
MANLIUS.  And I who fought so bravely for the glory
And might which now the vaunting tyrants boast!
I shall--!  If but the brave old band were here,
My comrades of the battlefield!  But no;
The greater part of them, alas, is dead;
The rest live scattering in many lands.--
MANLIUS.  Oh, what are you, the younger blood, to them?
You bend and cringe before authority;
You dare not break the chains that bind you fast;
You suffer patiently this life of bondage!
LENTULUS.  By all the Gods,--although indeed he taunts us,
Yet, Romans, is there truth in what he says.
CETHEGUS.  Oh, well,--what of it?  He is right, we grant,
But where shall we begin?  Ay, there's the rub.
LENTULUS.  Yes, it is true.  Too long have we endured
This great oppression.  Now--now is the time
To break the bonds asunder that injustice
And vain ambition have about us forged.
STATILIUS.  Ah, Lentulus, I understand.  Yet hold;
For such a thing we need a mighty leader,--
With pluck and vision.  Where can he be found?
LENTULUS.  I know a man who has the power to lead us.
MANLIUS.  Ah, you mean Catiline?
LENTULUS.  The very man.
CETHEGUS.  Yes, Catiline perchance is just the man.
MANLIUS.  I know him well.  I was his father's friend;
Many a battle side by side we fought.
Often his young son went with him to war.
Even his early years were wild and headstrong;
Yet he gave open proof of rare endowments,--
His mind was noble, dauntless was his courage.
LENTULUS.  We'll find him, as I think, most prompt and willing.
I met him late this evening much depressed;
He meditates in secret some bold plan;--
Some desperate scheme he long has had in mind.
STATILIUS.  No doubt; the consulate he long has sought.
LENTULUS.  His efforts are in vain; his enemies
Have madly raged against him in the senate;--
He was himself among them; full of wrath
He left the council--brooding on revenge.
STATILIUS.  Then will he surely welcome our proposal.
LENTULUS.  I hope so.  Yet must we in secret weigh
Our enterprise.  The time is opportune.
[They go.]
                *       *       *       *       *
[In the Temple of Vesta in Rome.  On an altar in the
background burns a lamp with the sacred fire.]
[CATILINE, followed by CURIUS, comes stealing in
between the pillars.]
CURIUS.  What, Catiline,--you mean to bring me here?
In Vesta's temple!
CATILINE.  [Laughing.]  Well, yes; so you see!
CURIUS.  Ye gods,--what folly!  On this very day
Has Cicero denounced you in the council;
And yet you dare--
CATILINE.  Oh, let that be forgotten!
CURIUS.  You are in danger, and forget it thus--
By rushing blindly into some new peril.
CATILINE.  [Gaily.]  Well, change is my delight.  I never knew
Ere now a vestal's love,--forbidden fruit;--
Wherefore I came to try my fortune here.
