"How it does look!" and Rose gave a glance of scorn at the loose belt
hanging round her trim little waist. "It will be lost, and then I shall
feel badly, for it cost ever so much, and is real steel and Russia
leather. Just smell how nice."
"If it is lost I'll give you a better one. A soft silken sash is much
fitter for a pretty child like you than a plated harness like this; and
I've got no end of Italian scarfs and Turkish sashes among my traps. Ah!
that makes you feel better, doesn't it?" and he pinched the cheek that
had suddenly dimpled with a smile.
"It is very silly of me, but I can't help liking to know that"--here she
stopped and blushed and held down her head, ashamed to add, "you think I
am pretty."
Dr. Alec's eyes twinkled, but he said very soberly,--
"Rose, are you vain?"
"I'm afraid I am," answered a very meek voice from behind the veil of
hair that hid the red face.
"That is a sad fault." And he sighed as if grieved at the confession.
"I know it is, and I try not to be; but people praise me, and I can't
help liking it, for I really don't think I am repulsive."
The last word and the funny tone in which it was uttered were too much
for Dr. Alec, and he laughed in spite of himself, to Rose's great
relief.
"I quite agree with you; and in order that you may be still less
repulsive, I want you to grow as fine a girl as Phebe."
"Phebe!" and Rose looked so amazed that her uncle nearly went off again.
"Yes, Phebe; for she has what you need,--health. If you dear little
girls would only learn what real beauty is, and not pinch and starve and
bleach yourselves out so, you'd save an immense deal of time and money
and pain. A happy soul in a healthy body makes the best sort of beauty
for man or woman. Do you understand that, my dear?"
"Yes, sir," answered Rose, much taken down by this comparison with the
girl from the poor-house. It nettled her sadly, and she showed that it
did by saying quickly,--
"I suppose you would like to have me sweep and scrub, and wear an old
brown dress, and go round with my sleeves rolled up, as Phebe does?"
"I should very much, if you could work as well as she does, and show as
strong a pair of arms as she can. I haven't seen a prettier picture for
some time than she made of herself this morning, up to the elbows in
suds, singing like a blackbird while she scrubbed on the back stoop."
"Well, I do think you are the queerest man that ever lived!" was all
Rose could find to say after this display of bad taste.
"I haven't begun to show my oddities yet, so you must make up your mind
to worse shocks than this," he said, with such a whimsical look that she
was glad the sound of a bell prevented her showing more plainly what a
blow her little vanities had already received.
