She lingered, pressing closer to his side. "Ned Hale and Ruth Varnum
came just as near running into the big elm at the bottom. We were all
sure they were killed." Her shiver ran down his arm. "Wouldn't it have
been too awful? They're so happy!"
"Oh, Ned ain't much at steering. I guess I can take you down all right!"
he said disdainfully.
He was aware that he was "talking big," like Denis Eady; but his
reaction of joy had unsteadied him, and the inflection with which she
had said of the engaged couple "They're so happy!" made the words sound
as if she had been thinking of herself and him.
"The elm is dangerous, though. It ought to be cut down," she insisted.
"Would you be afraid of it, with me?"
"I told you I ain't the kind to be afraid" she tossed back, almost
indifferently; and suddenly she began to walk on with a rapid step.
These alterations of mood were the despair and joy of Ethan Frome. The
motions of her mind were as incalculable as the flit of a bird in the
branches. The fact that he had no right to show his feelings, and thus
provoke the expression of hers, made him attach a fantastic importance
to every change in her look and tone. Now he thought she understood him,
and feared; now he was sure she did not, and despaired. To-night the
pressure of accumulated misgivings sent the scale drooping toward
despair, and her indifference was the more chilling after the flush of
joy into which she had plunged him by dismissing Denis Eady. He mounted
School House Hill at her side and walked on in silence till they
reached the lane leading to the saw-mill; then the need of some definite
assurance grew too strong for him.
"You'd have found me right off if you hadn't gone back to have that last
reel with Denis," he brought out awkwardly. He could not pronounce the
name without a stiffening of the muscles of his throat.
"Why, Ethan, how could I tell you were there?"
"I suppose what folks say is true," he jerked out at her, instead of
answering.
She stopped short, and he felt, in the darkness, that her face was
lifted quickly to his. "Why, what do folks say?"
"It's natural enough you should be leaving us" he floundered on,
following his thought.
"Is that what they say?" she mocked back at him; then, with a sudden
drop of her sweet treble: "You mean that Zeena--ain't suited with me any
more?" she faltered.
Their arms had slipped apart and they stood motionless, each seeking to
distinguish the other's face.
"I know I ain't anything like as smart as I ought to be," she went on,
while he vainly struggled for expression. "There's lots of things a
hired girl could do that come awkward to me still--and I haven't got much
strength in my arms. But if she'd only tell me I'd try. You know she
hardly ever says anything, and sometimes I can see she ain't suited,
and yet I don't know why." She turned on him with a sudden flash of
indignation. "You'd ought to tell me, Ethan Frome--you'd ought to! Unless
you want me to go too--"
