Peering into Mrs. Transome's face she saw clearly that the meeting with
the son had been a disappointment in some way. She spoke with a refined
accent, in a low quick, monotonous tone--
"Mr. Harold is dressed; he shook me by the hand in the corridor, and was
very pleasant."
"What an alteration, Denner! No likeness to me now."
"Handsome, though, spite of his being so browned and stout. There's a
fine presence about Mr. Harold. I remember you used to say, madam, there
were some people you would always know were in the room though they
stood round a corner, and others you might never see till you ran
against them. That's as true as truth. And as for likenesses,
thirty-five and sixty are not much alike, only to people's memories."
Mrs. Transome knew perfectly that Denner had divined her thoughts.
"I don't know how things will go on now, but it seems something too good
to happen that they will go on well. I am afraid of ever expecting
anything good again."
"That's weakness, madam. Things don't happen because they're bad or
good, else all eggs would be addled or none at all, and at the most it
is but six to the dozen. There's good chances and bad chances, and
nobody's luck is pulled only by one string."
"What a woman you are, Denner! You talk like a French infidel. It seems
to me you are afraid of nothing. I have been full of fears all my
life--always seeing something or other hanging over me that I couldn't
bear to happen."
"Well, madam, put a good face on it, and don't seem to be on the look-out
for crows, else you'll set other people watching. Here you have a rich
son come home, and the debts will all be paid, and you have your health
and can ride about, and you've such a face and figure, and will have if
you live to be eighty, that everybody is cap in hand to you before they
know you who are; let me fasten up your veil a little higher: there's a
good deal of pleasure in life for you yet."
"Nonsense! there's no pleasure for old women, unless they get it out of
tormenting other people. What are your pleasures, Denner--besides being
a slave to me?"
"Oh, there's pleasure in knowing one's not a fool, like half the people
one sees about. And managing one's husband is some pleasure; and doing
all one's business well. Why, if I've only got some orange flowers to
candy, I shouldn't like to die till I see them all right. Then there's
the sunshine now and then; I like that as the cats do. I look upon it,
life is like our game at whist, when Banks and his wife come to the
still-room of an evening. I don't enjoy the game much, but I like to
play my cards well, and see what will be the end of it; and I want to
see you make the best of your hand, madam, for your luck has been mine
these forty years now. But I must go and see how Kitty dishes up the
dinner, unless you have any more commands."
