"Ah, by Jove! fifteen years--so it is!" said Harold, taking his mother's
hand and drawing it under his arm; for he had perceived that her words
were charged with an intention. "And you are as straight as an arrow
still; you will carry the shawls I have brought you as well as ever."
They walked up the broad stone steps together in silence. Under the
shock of discovering her son's Radicalism, Mrs. Transome had no impulse
to say one thing rather than another; as in a man who had just been
branded on the forehead all wonted motives would be uprooted. Harold, on
his side, had no wish opposed to filial kindness, but his busy thoughts
were determined by habits which had no reference to any woman's
feelings; and even if he could have conceived what his mother's feeling
was, his mind, after that momentary arrest, would have darted forward on
its usual course.
"I have given you the south rooms, Harold," said Mrs. Transome, as they
passed along a corridor lit from above and lined with old family
pictures. "I thought they would suit you best, as they all open into
each other, and this middle one will make a pleasant sitting-room for
you."
"Gad! the furniture is in a bad state," said Harold, glancing around at
the middle room which they had just entered; "the moths seem to have got
into the carpets and hangings."
"I had no choice except moths or tenants who would pay rent," said Mrs.
Transome. "We have been too poor to keep servants for uninhabited
rooms."
"What! you've been rather pinched, eh?"
"You find us living as we have been living these twelve years."
"Ah, you've had Durfey's debts as well as the lawsuits--confound them!
It will make a hole in sixty thousand pounds to pay off the mortgages.
However, he's gone now, poor fellow; and I suppose I should have spent
more in buying an English estate some time or other. I always meant to
be an Englishman, and thrash a lord or two who thrashed me at Eton."
"I hardly thought you could have meant that, Harold, when I found you
had married a foreign wife."
"Would you have had me wait for a consumptive lackadaisical
Englishwoman, who would have hung all her relations around my neck? I
hate English wives; they want to give their opinion about everything.
They interfere with a man's life. I shall not marry again."
Mrs. Transome bit her lip, and turned away to draw up a blind. She would
not reply to words which showed how completely any conception of herself
and her feelings was excluded from her son's inward world.
As she turned round again she said, "I suppose you have been used to
great luxury; these rooms look miserable to you, but you can soon make
any alterations you like."
"Oh, I must have a private sitting-room fitted up for myself
down-stairs. And the rest are bedrooms, I suppose," he went on, opening
a side-door. "Ah, I can sleep here a night or two. But there's a bedroom
down-stairs, with an ante-room, I remember, that would do for my man
Dominic and the little boy. I should like to have that."
