Mrs. Transome had torn up that letter in a rage. But in the months which
had elapsed before Harold could actually arrive, she had prepared
herself as well as she could to suppress all reproaches or queries which
her son might resent, and to acquiesce in his evident wishes. The return
was still looked for with longing; affection and satisfied pride would
again warm her later years. She was ignorant what sort of man Harold had
become now, and of course he must be changed in many ways; but though
she told herself this, still the image that she knew, the image fondness
clung to, necessarily prevailed over the negatives insisted on by her
reason.
And so it was, that when she had moved to the door to meet him, she had
been sure that she should clasp her son again, and feel that he was the
same who had been her boy, her little one, the loved child of her
passionate youth. An hour seemed to have changed everything for her. A
woman's hopes are woven of sunbeams; a shadow annihilates them. The
shadow which had fallen over Mrs. Transome in this first interview with
her son was the presentiment of her powerlessness. If things went wrong,
if Harold got unpleasantly disposed in a certain direction where her
chief dread had always lain, she seemed to foresee that her words would
be of no avail. The keenness of her anxiety in this matter had served as
insight; and Harold's rapidity, decision, and indifference to any
impressions in others, which did not further or impede his own purposes,
had made themselves felt by her as much as she would have felt the
unmanageable strength of a great bird which had alighted near her, and
allowed her to stroke its wing for a moment because food lay near her.
Under the cold weight of these thoughts Mrs. Transome shivered. That
physical reaction roused her from her reverie, and she could now hear
the gentle knocking at the door to which she had been deaf before.
Notwithstanding her activity and the fewness of her servants, she had
never dressed herself without aid; nor would that small, neat,
exquisitely clean old woman who now presented herself have wished that
her labor should be saved at the expense of such a sacrifice on her
lady's part. The small old woman was Mrs. Hickes, the butler's wife, who
acted as housekeeper, lady's-maid, and superintendent of the
kitchen--the large stony scene of inconsiderable cooking. Forty years
ago she had entered Mrs. Transome's service, when that lady was
beautiful Miss Lingon, and her mistress still called her Denner, as she
had done in the old days.
"The bell has rung, then, Denner, without my hearing it?" said Mrs.
Transome, rising.
"Yes, madam," said Denner, reaching from a wardrobe an old black velvet
dress trimmed with much-mended point, in which Mrs. Transome was wont to
look queenly of an evening.
Denner had still strong eyes of that short-sighted kind which sees
through the narrowest chink between the eyelashes. The physical contrast
between the tall, eagle-faced, dark-eyed lady, and the little peering
waiting woman, who had been round-featured and of pale mealy complexion
from her youth up, had doubtless had a strong influence in determining
Denner's feeling toward her mistress, which was of that worshipful sort
paid to a goddess in ages when it was not thought necessary or likely
that a goddess should be very moral. There were different orders of
beings--so ran Denner's creed--and she belonged to another order than
that to which her mistress belonged. She had a mind as sharp as a
needle, and would have seen through and through the ridiculous
pretensions of a born servant who did not submissively accept the rigid
fate which had given her born superiors. She would have called such
pretensions the wrigglings of a worm that tried to walk on its tail.
There was a tacit understanding that Denner knew all her mistress's
secrets, and her speech was plain and unflattering; yet with wonderful
subtlety of instinct she never said anything which Mrs. Transome could
feel humiliated by, as by familiarity from a servant who knew too much.
Denner identified her own dignity with that of her mistress. She was a
hard-headed godless little woman, but with a character to be reckoned on
as you reckon on the qualities of iron.
