"I understand, I understand," he said aloud. "You've had more awkward
business on your hands than usually falls to the share of a family
lawyer. We shall set everything right by degrees. But now as to the
canvassing. I've made arrangements with a first-rate man in London, who
understands these matters thoroughly--a solicitor, of course--he has
carried no end of men into Parliament. I'll engage him to meet us at
Duffield--say when?"
The conversation after this was driven carefully clear of all angles,
and ended with determined amicableness. When Harold, in his ride an hour
or two afterward, encountered his uncle shouldering a gun, and followed
by one black and one liver-spotted pointer, his muscular person with its
red eagle face set off by a velveteen jacket and leather leggings, Mr.
Lingon's first question was--
"Well, lad, how have you got on with Jermyn?"
"Oh, I don't think I shall like the fellow. He's a sort of amateur
gentleman. But I must make use of him. I expect whatever I get out of
him will only be something short of fair pay for what he has got out of
us. But I shall see."
"Ay, ay, use his gun to bring down your game, and after that, beat the
thief with the butt end. That's wisdom and justice and pleasure all in
one--talking between ourselves as uncle and nephew. But I say, Harold, I
was going to tell you, now I come to think of it, this is rather a
nasty business, your calling yourself a Radical. I've been turning it
over in after-dinner speeches, but it looks awkward--it's not what
people are used to--it wants a good deal of Latin to make it go down. I
shall be worried about it at the sessions, and I can think of nothing
neat enough to carry about in my pocket by way of answer."
"Nonsense, uncle! I remember what a good speechifier you always were;
you'll never be at a loss. You only want a few more evenings to think of
it."
"But you'll not be attacking the Church and the institutions of the
country--you'll not be going those lengths; you'll keep up the bulwarks,
and so on, eh?"
"No, I shan't attack the Church, only the incomes of the bishops,
perhaps, to make them eke out the incomes of the poor clergy."
"Well, well, I have no objection to that. Nobody likes our bishop: he's
all Greek and greediness; too proud to dine with his own father. You may
pepper the bishops a little. But you'll respect the constitution handed
down, etc.--and you'll rally round the throne--and the King, God bless
him, and the usual toasts, eh?"
"Of course, of course. I am a Radical only in rooting out abuses."
"That's the word I wanted, my lad!" said the vicar, slapping Harold's
knee. "That's a spool to wind a speech on. Abuses is the very word; and
if anybody shows himself offended, he'll put the cap on for himself."
"I remove the rotten timbers," said Harold, inwardly amused, "and
substitute fresh oak, that's all."
