"A fat-handed, glib-tongued fellow, with a scented cambric handkerchief;
one of your educated low-bred fellows; a foundling who got his Latin for
nothing at Christ's Hospital; one of your middle-class upstarts who want
to rank with gentlemen, and think they'll do it with kid gloves and new
furniture."
But since Harold meant to stand for the county, Mr. Lingon was equally
emphatic as to the necessity of his not quarrelling with Jermyn till the
election was over. Jermyn must be his agent; Harold must wink hard till
he found himself safely returned; and even then it might be well to let
Jermyn drop gently and raise no scandal. He himself had no quarrel with
the fellow: a clergyman should have no quarrels, and he made it a point
to be able to take wine with any man he met at table. And as to the
estate, and his sister's going too much by Jermyn's advice, he never
meddled with business: it was not his duty as a clergyman. That, he
considered, was the meaning of Melchisedec and the tithe, a subject,
into which he had gone to some depth thirty years ago, when he preached
the Visitation sermon.
The discovery that Harold meant to stand on the Liberal side--nay, that
he boldly declared himself a Radical--was rather startling; but to his
uncle's good-humor, beatified by the sipping of port-wine, nothing could
seem highly objectionable, provided it did not disturb that operation.
In the course of half an hour he had brought himself to see that
anything really worthy to be called British Toryism had been entirely
extinct since the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel had passed the
Catholic Emancipation Bill; that Whiggery, with its rights of man
stopping short at ten-pound householders, and its policy of pacifying a
wild beast with a bite, was a ridiculous monstrosity; that therefore,
since an honest man could not call himself a Tory, which it was, in
fact, as impossible to be now as to fight for the old Pretender, and
could still less become that execrable monstrosity a Whig, there
remained but one course open to him. "Why, lad, if the world was turned
into a swamp, I suppose we should leave off shoes and stockings, and
walk about like cranes"--whence it followed plainly enough that, in
these hopeless times, nothing was left to men of sense and good family
but to retard the national ruin by declaring themselves Radicals, and
take the inevitable process of changing everything out of the hands of
beggarly demagogues and purse-proud tradesmen. It is true the rector was
helped to this chain of reasoning by Harold's remarks; but he soon
became quite ardent in asserting the conclusion.
"If the mob can't be turned back, a man of family must try and head the
mob, and save a few homes and hearths, and keep the country up on its
last legs as long as he can. And you're a man of family, my lad--dash
it! You're a Lingon, whatever else you may be, and I'll stand by you.
I've no great interest; I'm a poor parson. I've been forced to give up
hunting; my pointers and a glass of good wine are the only decencies
becoming my station that I can allow myself. But I'll give you my
countenance--I'll stick to you as my nephew. There's no need for me to
change sides exactly. I was born a Tory, and I shall never be a bishop.
But if anybody says you're in the wrong, I shall say, 'My nephew is in
the right; he has turned Radical to save his country. If William Pitt
had been living now he'd have done the same; for what did he say when he
was dying? Not 'Oh, save my party!' but 'Oh, save my country, heaven!'
That was what they dinned in our ears about Peel and the Duke; and now
I'll turn it round upon them. They shall be hoist with their own petard.
Yes, yes, I'll stand by you."
