They sat down to breakfast with such slight talk as this going on. Each
of the party was preoccupied and uneasy. Harold's mind was busy
constructing probabilities about what he should discover of Jermyn's
mismanagement or dubious application of funds, and the sort of
self-command he must in the worst case exercise in order to use the man
as long as he wanted him. Jermyn was closely observing Harold with an
unpleasant sense that there was an expression of acuteness and
determination about him which would make him formidable. He would
certainly have preferred at that moment that there had been no second
heir of the Transome name to come back upon him from the East. Mrs.
Transome was not observing the two men; rather, her hands were cold, and
her whole person shaken by their presence; she seemed to hear and see
what they said and did with preternatural acuteness, and yet she was
also seeing and hearing what had been said and done many years before,
and feeling a dim terror about the future. There were piteous
sensibilities in this faded woman, who thirty-four years ago, in the
splendor of her bloom, had been imperious to one of these men, and had
rapturously pressed the other as an infant to her bosom, and now knew
that she was of little consequence to either of them.
"Well, what are the prospects about election?" said Harold, as the
breakfast was advancing. "There are two Whigs and one Conservative
likely to be in the field, I know. What is your opinion of the chances?"
Mr. Jermyn had a copious supply of words which often led him into
periphrase, but he cultivated a hesitating stammer, which, with a
handsome impassiveness of face, except when he was smiling at a woman,
or when the latent savageness of his nature was thoroughly roused, he
had found useful in many relations, especially in business. No one could
have found out that he was not at his ease. "My opinion," he replied,
"is in a state of balance at present. This division of the county, you
are aware, contains one manufacturing town of the first magnitude, and
several smaller ones. The manufacturing interest is widely dispersed. So
far--a--there is a presumption--a--in favor of the two Liberal
candidates. Still, with a careful canvass of the agricultural districts,
such as those we have round us at Treby Magna, I think--a--the
auguries--a--would not be unfavorable to the return of a Conservative. A
fourth candidate of good position, who should coalesce with Mr.
Debarry--a----"
Here Mr. Jermyn hesitated for the third time, and Harold broke in.
"That will not be my line of action, so we need not discuss it. If I put
up it will be as a Radical; and I fancy, in any county that would return
Whigs there would be plenty of voters to be combed off by a Radical who
offered himself with good pretensions."
There was the slightest possible quiver discernible across Jermyn's
face. Otherwise he sat as he had done before, with his eyes fixed
abstractedly on the frill of a ham before him, and his hand trifling
with his fork. He did not answer immediately, but, when he did, he
looked round steadily at Harold.
