Then, amid a burst of wild, sweet music, the Frost-King placed
the Flower crown on his head, and knelt to little Violet; while far
and near, over the broad green earth, sounded the voices of flowers,
singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy, and the summer wind
was laden with perfumes, which they sent as tokens of their gratitude;
and wherever she went, old trees bent down to fold their slender
branches round her, flowers laid their soft faces against her own,
and whispered blessings; even the humble moss bent over the little
feet, and kissed them as they passed.
The old King, surrounded by the happy Fairies, sat in Violet's
lovely home, and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the bright
sunlight; while his Spirits, cold and gloomy no longer, danced
with the Elves, and waited on their King with loving eagerness.
Brighter grew the golden light, gayer sang the birds, and the
harmonious voices of grateful flowers, sounding over the earth,
carried new joy to all their gentle kindred.
 Brighter shone the golden shadows;
   On the cool wind softly came
 The low, sweet tones of happy flowers,
   Singing little Violet's name.
 'Mong the green trees was it whispered,
   And the bright waves bore it on
 To the lonely forest flowers,
   Where the glad news had not gone.
 Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom,
   And his power to harm and blight.
 Violet conquered, and his cold heart
   Warmed with music, love, and light;
 And his fair home, once so dreary,
   Gay with lovely Elves and flowers,
 Brought a joy that never faded
   Through the long bright summer hours.
 Thus, by Violet's magic power,
   All dark shadows passed away,
 And o'er the home of happy flowers
   The golden light for ever lay.
 Thus the Fairy mission ended,
   And all Flower-Land was taught
 The "Power of Love," by gentle deeds
   That little Violet wrought.
As Sunny Lock ceased, another little Elf came forward; and this was
the tale "Silver Wing" told.
EVA'S VISIT TO FAIRY-LAND.
DOWN among the grass and fragrant clover lay little Eva by the
brook-side, watching the bright waves, as they went singing by under
the drooping flowers that grew on its banks.  As she was wondering
where the waters went, she heard a faint, low sound, as of far-off
music.  She thought it was the wind, but not a leaf was stirring,
and soon through the rippling water came a strange little boat.
It was a lily of the valley, whose tall stem formed the mast,
while the broad leaves that rose from the roots, and drooped again
till they reached the water, were filled with gay little Elves,
who danced to the music of the silver lily-bells above, that rang
a merry peal, and filled the air with their fragrant breath.
On came the fairy boat, till it reached a moss-grown rock; and here
it stopped, while the Fairies rested beneath the violet-leaves,
and sang with the dancing waves.
Eva looked with wonder on their gay faces and bright garments, and
in the joy of her heart sang too, and threw crimson fruit for the
little folks to feast upon.
