MANDERS. But then how to account for--? I recollect distinctly Engstrand
coming to give notice of the marriage. He was quite overwhelmed with
contrition, and bitterly reproached himself for the misbehaviour he and
his sweetheart had been guilty of.
MRS. ALVING. Yes; of course he had to take the blame upon himself.
MANDERS. But such a piece of duplicity on his part! And towards me too!
I never could have believed it of Jacob Engstrand. I shall not fail
to take him seriously to task; he may be sure of that.--And then the
immorality of such a connection! For money--! How much did the girl
receive?
MRS. ALVING. Three hundred dollars.
MANDERS. Just think of it--for a miserable three hundred dollars, to go
and marry a fallen woman!
MRS. ALVING. Then what have you to say of me? I went and married a
fallen man.
MANDERS. Why--good heavens!--what are you talking about! A fallen man!
MRS. ALVING. Do you think Alving was any purer when I went with him to
the altar than Johanna was when Engstrand married her?
MANDERS. Well, but there is a world of difference between the two
cases--
MRS. ALVING. Not so much difference after all--except in the price:--a
miserable three hundred dollars and a whole fortune.
MANDERS. How can you compare such absolutely dissimilar cases? You had
taken counsel with your own heart and with your natural advisers.
MRS. ALVING. [Without looking at him.] I thought you understood where
what you call my heart had strayed to at the time.
MANDERS. [Distantly.] Had I understood anything of the kind, I should
not have been a daily guest in your husband's house.
MRS. ALVING. At any rate, the fact remains that with myself I took no
counsel whatever.
MANDERS. Well then, with your nearest relatives--as your duty bade
you--with your mother and your two aunts.
MRS. ALVING. Yes, that is true. Those three cast up the account for me.
Oh, it's marvellous how clearly they made out that it would be downright
madness to refuse such an offer. If mother could only see me now, and
know what all that grandeur has come to!
MANDERS. Nobody can be held responsible for the result. This, at least,
remains clear: your marriage was in full accordance with law and order.
MRS. ALVING. [At the window.] Oh, that perpetual law and order! I often
think that is what does all the mischief in this world of ours.
MANDERS. Mrs. Alving, that is a sinful way of talking.
MRS. ALVING. Well, I can't help it; I must have done with all this
constraint and insincerity. I can endure it no longer. I must work my
way out to freedom.
MANDERS. What do you mean by that?
MRS. ALVING. [Drumming on the window frame.] I ought never to have
concealed the facts of Alving's life. But at that time I dared not
do anything else-I was afraid, partly on my own account. I was such a
coward.
MANDERS. A coward?
MRS. ALVING. If people had come to know anything, they would have
said--"Poor man! with a runaway wife, no wonder he kicks over the
traces."
