  Ham. Oh all you host of Heauen! Oh Earth; what els?
And shall I couple Hell? Oh fie: hold my heart;
And you my sinnewes, grow not instant Old;
But beare me stiffely vp: Remember thee?
I, thou poore Ghost, while memory holds a seate
In this distracted Globe: Remember thee?
Yea, from the Table of my Memory,
Ile wipe away all triuiall fond Records,
All sawes of Bookes, all formes, all presures past,
That youth and obseruation coppied there;
And thy Commandment all alone shall liue
Within the Booke and Volume of my Braine,
Vnmixt with baser matter; yes yes, by Heauen:
Oh most pernicious woman!
Oh Villaine, Villaine, smiling damned Villaine!
My Tables, my Tables; meet it is I set it downe,
That one may smile, and smile and be a Villaine;
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmarke;
So Vnckle there you are: now to my word;
It is; Adue, Adue, Remember me: I haue sworn't
   Hor. & Mar. within. My Lord, my Lord.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
  Mar. Lord Hamlet
   Hor. Heauen secure him
   Mar. So be it
   Hor. Illo, ho, ho, my Lord
   Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy; come bird, come
   Mar. How ist my Noble Lord?
  Hor. What newes, my Lord?
  Ham. Oh wonderfull!
  Hor. Good my Lord tell it
   Ham. No you'l reueale it
   Hor. Not I, my Lord, by Heauen
   Mar. Nor I, my Lord
   Ham. How say you then, would heart of man once think it?
But you'l be secret?
  Both. I, by Heau'n, my Lord
   Ham. There's nere a villaine dwelling in all Denmarke
But hee's an arrant knaue
   Hor. There needs no Ghost my Lord, come from the
Graue, to tell vs this
   Ham. Why right, you are i'th' right;
And so, without more circumstance at all,
I hold it fit that we shake hands, and part:
You, as your busines and desires shall point you:
For euery man ha's businesse and desire,
Such as it is: and for mine owne poore part,
Looke you, Ile goe pray
   Hor. These are but wild and hurling words, my Lord
   Ham. I'm sorry they offend you heartily:
Yes faith, heartily
   Hor. There's no offence my Lord
   Ham. Yes, by Saint Patricke, but there is my Lord,
And much offence too, touching this Vision heere:
It is an honest Ghost, that let me tell you:
For your desire to know what is betweene vs,
O'remaster't as you may. And now good friends,
As you are Friends, Schollers and Soldiers,
Giue me one poore request
   Hor. What is't my Lord? we will
   Ham. Neuer make known what you haue seen to night
   Both. My Lord, we will not
   Ham. Nay, but swear't
   Hor. Infaith my Lord, not I
   Mar. Nor I my Lord: in faith
   Ham. Vpon my sword
   Marcell. We haue sworne my Lord already
   Ham. Indeed, vpon my sword, Indeed
   Gho. Sweare.
Ghost cries vnder the Stage.
  Ham. Ah ha boy, sayest thou so. Art thou there truepenny?
Come one you here this fellow in the selleredge
Consent to sweare
