   Norf. I am sorry
To heare this of him; and could wish he were
Somthing mistaken in't
   Buck. No, not a sillable:
I doe pronounce him in that very shape
He shall appeare in proofe.
Enter Brandon, a Sergeant at Armes before him, and two or three
of the
Guard.
  Brandon. Your Office Sergeant: execute it
   Sergeant. Sir,
My Lord the Duke of Buckingham, and Earle
Of Hertford, Stafford and Northampton, I
Arrest thee of High Treason, in the name
Of our most Soueraigne King
   Buck. Lo you my Lord,
The net has falne vpon me, I shall perish
Vnder deuice, and practise
   Bran. I am sorry,
To see you tane from liberty, to looke on
The busines present. Tis his Highnes pleasure
You shall to th' Tower
   Buck. It will helpe me nothing
To plead mine Innocence; for that dye is on me
Which makes my whit'st part, black. The will of Heau'n
Be done in this and all things: I obey.
O my Lord Aburgany: Fare you well
   Bran. Nay, he must beare you company. The King
Is pleas'd you shall to th' Tower, till you know
How he determines further
   Abur. As the Duke said,
The will of Heauen be done, and the Kings pleasure
By me obey'd
   Bran. Here is a warrant from
The King, t' attach Lord Mountacute, and the Bodies
Of the Dukes Confessor, Iohn de la Car,
One Gilbert Pecke, his Councellour
   Buck. So, so;
These are the limbs o'th' Plot: no more I hope
   Bra. A Monke o'th' Chartreux
   Buck. O Michaell Hopkins?
  Bra. He
   Buck. My Surueyor is falce: The oregreat Cardinall
Hath shew'd him gold; my life is spand already:
I am the shadow of poore Buckingham,
Whose Figure euen this instant Clowd puts on,
By Darkning my cleere Sunne. My Lords farewell.
Exe.
Scena Secunda.
Cornets. Enter King Henry, leaning on the Cardinals shoulder, the
Nobles,
and Sir Thomas Louell: the Cardinall places himselfe vnder the
Kings feete
on his right side.
  King. My life it selfe, and the best heart of it,
Thankes you for this great care: I stood i'th' leuell
Of a full-charg'd confederacie, and giue thankes
To you that choak'd it. Let be cald before vs
That Gentleman of Buckinghams, in person,
Ile heare him his confessions iustifie,
And point by point the Treasons of his Maister,
He shall againe relate.
A noyse within crying roome for the Queene, vsher'd by the Duke
of
Norfolke. Enter the Queene, Norfolke and Suffolke: she kneels.
King riseth
from his State, takes her vp, kisses and placeth her by him.
  Queen. Nay, we must longer kneele; I am a Suitor
   King. Arise, and take place by vs; halfe your Suit
Neuer name to vs; you haue halfe our power:
The other moity ere you aske is giuen,
Repeat your will, and take it
   Queen. Thanke your Maiesty
That you would loue your selfe, and in that loue
Not vnconsidered leaue your Honour, nor
The dignity of your Office; is the poynt
Of my Petition
