   Const. Indeed my Lord, it is a most absolute and excellent
Horse
   Dolph. It is the Prince of Palfrayes, his Neigh is like
the bidding of a Monarch, and his countenance enforces
Homage
   Orleance. No more Cousin
   Dolph. Nay, the man hath no wit, that cannot from
the rising of the Larke to the lodging of the Lambe,
varie deserued prayse on my Palfray: it is a Theame as
fluent as the Sea: Turne the Sands into eloquent tongues,
and my Horse is argument for them all: 'tis a subiect
for a Soueraigne to reason on, and for a Soueraignes Soueraigne
to ride on: And for the World, familiar to vs,
and vnknowne, to lay apart their particular Functions,
and wonder at him, I once writ a Sonnet in his prayse,
and began thus, Wonder of Nature
   Orleance. I haue heard a Sonnet begin so to ones Mistresse
   Dolph. Then did they imitate that which I compos'd
to my Courser, for my Horse is my Mistresse
   Orleance. Your Mistresse beares well
   Dolph. Me well, which is the prescript prayse and perfection
of a good and particular Mistresse
   Const. Nay, for me thought yesterday your Mistresse
shrewdly shooke your back
   Dolph. So perhaps did yours
   Const. Mine was not bridled
   Dolph. O then belike she was old and gentle, and you
rode like a Kerne of Ireland, your French Hose off, and in
your strait Strossers
   Const. You haue good iudgement in Horsemanship
   Dolph. Be warn'd by me then: they that ride so, and
ride not warily, fall into foule Boggs: I had rather haue
my Horse to my Mistresse
   Const. I had as liue haue my Mistresse a Iade
   Dolph. I tell thee Constable, my Mistresse weares his
owne hayre
   Const. I could make as true a boast as that, if I had a
Sow to my Mistresse
   Dolph. Le chien est retourne a son propre vemissement est
la leuye lauee au bourbier: thou mak'st vse of any thing
   Const. Yet doe I not vse my Horse for my Mistresse,
or any such Prouerbe, so little kin to the purpose
   Ramb. My Lord Constable, the Armour that I saw in
your Tent to night, are those Starres or Sunnes vpon it?
  Const. Starres my Lord
   Dolph. Some of them will fall to morrow, I hope
   Const. And yet my Sky shall not want
   Dolph. That may be, for you beare a many superfluously,
and 'twere more honor some were away
   Const. Eu'n as your Horse beares your prayses, who
would trot as well, were some of your bragges dismounted
   Dolph. Would I were able to loade him with his desert.
Will it neuer be day? I will trot to morrow a mile,
and my way shall be paued with English Faces
   Const. I will not say so, for feare I should be fac't out
of my way: but I would it were morning, for I would
faine be about the eares of the English
   Ramb. Who will goe to Hazard with me for twentie
Prisoners?
  Const. You must first goe your selfe to hazard, ere you
haue them
