_The American_ (1877) still holds this view of Europe. Its theme, to
quote Mr James in the preface of the definitive edition, is "the
situation, in another country and an aristocratic society, of some
robust but insidiously beguiled and betrayed, some cruelly wronged
compatriot; the point being in especial that he should suffer at the
hands of persons pretending to represent the highest possible
civilisation and to be of an order far superior to his own." Christopher
Newman, the robust compatriot, is such a large, simple, lovable person
that the rest of the story leads one to suspect that one may say of Mr
James, as he said of Balzac, that "his figures, as a general thing, are
better than the use he makes of them." He walks through Europe examining
its culture with such an effect on the natives as an amiable buffalo
traversing the Galerie d'Apollon might produce upon the copyists of the
Louvre, and finally presents himself at the house where he is least
welcome in the world, the home of the de Bellegardes, a proud and
ancient Royalist family. Thereafter, the novel is an exposition of the
way things do not happen. Claire de Cintre, the widowed daughter whom
Newman desires to marry, is represented as having above all things
beauty of character; but when her family snatches her from him in a
frenzy of pride she allows herself to be bundled into a convent with a
weakness that would convict of imbecility any woman of twenty-eight. And
since her mother and brother had murdered her father by refusing him
medicine at a physical crisis, and sustained themselves in the act by
the reflection that after all they were only keeping up the good old
family tone, one wonders where she got this beauty of character. The
child of this damned house might have flamed with a strange fire, but
she could not have diffused a rectory lamp-light. But the series of
inconsistencies of which this is only one leads, like a jolting
motor-bus that puts one down at Hampton Court, to an exquisite
situation. Newman discovers the secret of the Marquis' murder and
intends to publish it as a punishment for the cruel wrong the de
Bellegardes have done him, but sacrifices this satisfaction simply
because there can be no link--not even the link of revenge--between such
as they and such as he. In all literature there is no passage so full of
the very passion of moral exaltation as the description of how Newman
stands before the Carmelite house in the Rue d'Enfer and looks up at the
blank, discoloured wall, behind which his lost lady is immured, then
walks back to Notre Dame and there, "the far-away bells chiming off into
space, at long intervals, the big bronze syllables of the Word," decides
that such things as revenge "were really not his game." So it is with
Mr James to the end. The foreground is as often as not red with the
blood of slaughtered probabilities; a gentleman at a dinner-party tells
the lady on his left (a perfect stranger who never appears again in the
story) that some years ago he proposed to the lady in white sitting
opposite to them; a curio dealer calls on a lady in Portland Place just
to wind up the plot. But the great glow at the back, the emotional
conflagration, is always right.
