One perceives how far this mood had gone with Mr James when the hero of
_The Tragic Muse_ (1890) refuses a seat in Parliament and the hand of a
wealthy widow in order that he might go on painting. From Mr James, to
whom marrying a widow appeared as much superior to marrying a spinster
as privately acquiring a "piece" from the dispersed collection of a
deceased connoisseur of repute is to buying old furniture with no
guarantee but one's own approval, this was a portentous incident. And
there is vast significance in his sympathetic representation of Miriam
Rooth, the young actress to whom the title refers, for before this
period he would never have accepted the genius of the black-browed,
untidy girl as an excuse for her lack of money and social position and
manners. It had hitherto been his grimly expressed opinion that "the
life of a woman is essentially an affair of private relations," and he
had refused to dramatise in his imagination anything concerning women
save their failures and successes as sexual beings; which is like
judging a cutlet not by its flavour, but by the condition of its
pink-paper frill. That time had gone. He had abandoned all his
prejudices in despair, and for many years to come was to show a divine
charity, freely permitting every encountered thing to impress its
essence on the receptive wax of his consciousness. For the next twelve
years "impressions," as in his happy foreign childhood, "were not merely
all right, but were the dearest things in the world."
IV
THE CRYSTAL BOWL
In that octagonal room at the Prado, where each wall is an altar raised
to beauty, because it is hung with pictures by Velasquez, in all the
lesser works one finds some intimation of the grave, fine personality
who produced all this wonder. At the sacred picture that was his first
one says, "He was a pupil, and very proud of painting the old things
better than the old men could, even though they meant nothing to him";
at the squat, black dwarfs, "He was so sure that the truth about the
world was kind that he could look upon horror without fear"; and at the
sketches of the Villa Medici Gardens, "After hot, bleak Spain he loved
Italy as one who has known passion loves a passionless girl." And the
recreated personality, tangible enough to be liked, passes with one
about the gallery until suddenly, before the masterpieces, it vanishes.
With those it had nothing to do; the thing that was his character,
shaped out of the innate traits of his dark stock by the raw beauty of
the land and the stiff rich life of the court, brought him to the
conception of these works but lay sleeping through their execution. When
he was painting _Las Hilanderas_ he knew nothing save that the weavers'
flesh glowed golden in the dusty sunlight of the factory; for the state
of genius consists of an utter surrender of the mind to the subject. The
artist at the moment of creation must be like a saint awaiting the
embrace of God, scourging appetite out of him, shrinking from sensation
as though it were a sin, deleting self, lifting his consciousness like
an empty cup to receive the heavenly draught.
