While that novel reminds one, in the way it "comes off," of a sum in
which the right answer is got by wrong working, _The Bostonians_ (1886)
reminds one of a foolish song set to a good tune in the way it fails to
"come off." The beauty of the writing is so great that there are
descriptions of the shabby petticoats of a pioneer, or the vestibule in
a mean block of flats, that one would like to learn by heart, so that
one might turn the phrases over in the mind when one wants to hear the
clinking of pure gold. And the theme, the aptness of young persons
possessed of that capacity for contagious enthusiasm which makes the
good propagandist to be exploited by the mercenary and to deteriorate
under the strain of public life, is specially interesting to our
generation. Few of us there are who have not seen with our own eyes
elderly egoists building up profitable autocracies out of the ardour of
young girls, or fierce advocates of the brotherhood of man mellowing
into contemplative emptiers of pint-pots. But, just as the most
intellectual conversation may be broken up by the continued squeal of a
loose chimney-cowl, so this musical disclosure of fine material is
interrupted past any reader's patience by a nagging hostility to
political effort. This is not so disgraceful to Mr James as it might
seem, for it is simply the survival of an affectation which was forced
upon the cultured American of his youth. The pioneers who wanted to
raise the small silvery song of art had to tempt their audiences somehow
from the big brass band of America's political movements; and so
straining was this task that even Emerson, who vibrated to the chord of
reform as to no other, was sometimes vexed into such foolish inquiries
as "Does he not do more to abolish slavery who works all day in his own
garden than he who goes to the abolition meetings and makes a speech?"
It was just one of the results of Mr James' condition at this period
that he presented to the world so deliberately and so vividly, and with
such an air of feeling, what was no more than the misty reflection of
some dead men's transitory irritations.
Politics play a very great part, and in the same sense, in _The
Princess Casamassima_ (1886), but it is the peculiar magic of that
strange book which is at once able and distraught, wild and meticulous,
that in it all perversities are somehow transmuted into loveliness. It
is one of the big jokes in literature that it was the writer who among
all his contemporaries held the most sophisticated view of his art, who
prided himself that on him there gleamed no drop of the dew of naivete,
that brought back to fiction the last delicious breath of the time when
even the best books ran on like this: "It happened that one dark and
stormy night in March I, Sebastian Melmoth, was traversing the plain of
La Mancha.... 'Have at you!' cried the guard.... 'Seat yourself,' said
the stranger, signing to his Hindu attendant that the bodies should be
removed, and commencing to cleanse the blood from his sword with a
richly embroidered handkerchief, 'and I will tell you the story of my
life.'" There is always something doing in _The Princess Casamassima_,
and it is usually something great, and as a rule it is doing it quite
on its own. As a portal to the disordered tale there stands one of the
finest short stories in the world; how Miss Pynsent, the shabby little
dressmaker who has brought up Hyacinth, the bastard child of a French
work-girl now in Millbank for the murder of the peer who betrayed her,
is suddenly bidden to bring the boy to his mother's prison deathbed, and
how the poor woman drags him up to the brown, windowless walls, the vast
blank gate, the looming corridors infused with sallow light, is such a
study of the way the institutions devised by man in the interests of
justice and order make a child's soul scream, that the reader will for
ever after think a great deal less of Pip's adventures on the marshes in
_Great Expectations_. Dickens could never have suffused his story with
so exquisite and so relevant an emotional effect as the aching of poor
Miss Pynsent's heart over this rough introduction of her cherished lamb
to the horrible; nor could he have invented that wonderful moment when
the child turns from the ravenous embrace of the wasted and disfigured
stranger with, "I won't kiss her; Pinnie says she stole a watch!" at
which the murderess screams, "_Ah! quelle infamie!_ I never stole
anything!" and the wardress says with dignity: "I'm sure you needn't put
more on her than she has by rights," to which the poor virgin, quite
unable to understand the peculiar cachet attaching to a _crime
passionel_, cries contritely, "Mercy, more! I thought it so much less!"
