And the Queen asked me to row her ashore in my skiff, when at sunset
French Frank prepared to take his guests ashore.  Nor did I catch the
significance of his abrupt change of plan when he turned the task of
rowing his skiff over to Whisky Bob, himself remaining on board the
sloop.  Nor did I understand Spider's grinning side-remark to me: "Gee!
There's nothin' slow about YOU." How could it possibly enter my boy's
head that a grizzled man of fifty should be jealous of me?
CHAPTER VIII
We met by appointment, early Monday morning, to complete the deal, in
Johnny Heinhold's "Last Chance "--a saloon, of course, for the
transactions of men.  I paid the money over, received the bill of sale,
and French Frank treated.  This struck me as an evident custom, and a
logical one--the seller, who receives the money, to wet a piece of it in
the establishment where the trade was consummated.  But, to my surprise,
French Frank treated the house.  He and I drank, which seemed just; but
why should Johnny Heinhold, who owned the saloon and waited behind the
bar, be invited to drink? I figured it immediately that he made a profit
on the very drink he drank.  I could, in a way, considering that they
were friends and shipmates, understand Spider and Whisky Bob being asked
to drink; but why should the longshoremen, Bill Kelley and Soup Kennedy,
be asked?
Then there was Pat, the Queen's brother, making a total of eight of us.
It was early morning, and all ordered whisky.  What could I do, here in
this company of big men, all drinking whisky?  "Whisky," I said, with the
careless air of one who had said it a thousand times.  And such whisky! I
tossed it down.  A-r-r-r-gh! I can taste it yet.
And I was appalled at the price French Frank had paid--eighty cents.
EIGHTY CENTS!  It was an outrage to my thrifty soul.  Eighty cents--the
equivalent of eight long hours of my toil at the machine, gone down our
throats, and gone like that, in a twinkling, leaving only a bad taste in
the mouth.  There was no discussion that French Frank was a waster.
I was anxious to be gone, out into the sunshine, out over the water to my
glorious boat.  But all hands lingered.  Even Spider, my crew, lingered.
No hint broke through my obtuseness of why they lingered.  I have often
thought since of how they must have regarded me, the newcomer being
welcomed into their company standing at bar with them, and not standing
for a single round of drinks.
French Frank, who, unknown to me, had swallowed his chagrin since the day
before, now that the money for the Razzle Dazzle was in his pocket, began
to behave curiously toward me.  I sensed the change in his attitude, saw
the forbidding glitter in his eyes, and wondered.  The more I saw of men,
the queerer they became.  Johnny Heinhold leaned across the bar and
whispered in my ear, "He's got it in for you.  Watch out."
