In the place of honour, with the sunshine warm upon it, and a green
garland always round it, was Marmee's beloved face, painted with
grateful skill by a great artist whom she had befriended when poor and
unknown. So beautifully lifelike was it that it seemed to smile down
upon her daughters, saying cheerfully:
'Be happy; I am with you still.'
The three sisters stood a moment looking up at the beloved picture with
eyes full of tender reverence and the longing that never left them; for
this noble mother had been so much to them that no one could ever fill
her place. Only two years since she had gone away to live and love anew,
leaving such a sweet memory behind her that it was both an inspiration
and a comforter to all the household. They felt this as they drew closer
to one another, and Laurie put it into words as he said earnestly:
'I can ask nothing better for my child than that she may be a woman like
our mother. Please God, she shall be, if I can do it; for I owe the best
I have to this dear saint.'
Just then a fresh voice began to sing 'Ave Maria' in the music-room, and
Bess unconsciously echoed her father's prayer for her as she dutifully
obeyed his wishes. The soft sound of the air Marmee used to sing led the
listeners back into the world again from that momentary reaching after
the loved and lost, and they sat down together near the open windows
enjoying the music, while Laurie brought them tea, making the little
service pleasant by the tender care he gave to it.
Nat came in with Demi, soon followed by Ted and Josie, the Professor and
his faithful Rob, all anxious to hear more about 'the boys'. The rattle
of cups and tongues grew brisk, and the setting sun saw a cheerful
company resting in the bright room after the varied labours of the day.
Professor Bhaer was grey now, but robust and genial as ever; for he had
the work he loved, and did it so heartily that the whole college felt
his beautiful influence. Rob was as much like him as it was possible for
a boy to be, and was already called the 'young Professor', he so adored
study and closely imitated his honoured father in all ways.
'Well, heart's dearest, we go to have our boys again, all two, and
may rejoice greatly,' said Mr Bhaer, seating himself beside Jo with a
beaming face and a handshake of congratulation.
'Oh, Fritz, I'm so delighted about Emil, and if you approve about Franz
also. Did you know Ludmilla? Is it a wise match?' asked Mrs Jo, handing
him her cup of tea and drawing closer, as if she welcomed her refuge in
joy as well as sorrow.
'It all goes well. I saw the Madchen when I went over to place Franz.
A child then, but most sweet and charming. Blumenthal is satisfied, I
think, and the boy will be happy. He is too German to be content away
from Vaterland, so we shall have him as a link between the new and the
old, and that pleases me much.'
