  LADY INGER.  Hush, child;--I might take you at your word.
  ELINA.  How mean you, my mother?
  LADY INGER.  I might call on you for both; I might----; but let
me say my say out first.
  Know then that the time seems now to be drawing nigh, towards
which the Danish Council have been working for many a year--the
time for them to strike a final blow at our rights and our freedom.
Therefore must we now----
  ELINA (eagerly).  Throw off the yoke, my mother?
  LADY INGER.  No; we must gain breathing-time.  The Council is
now sitting in Copenhagen, considering how best to aim the blow.
Most of them are said to hold that there can be no end to dissensions
till Norway and Denmark are one; for if we should still have our
rights as a free land when the time comes to choose the next king,
it is most like that the feud will break out openly.  Now the Danish
Councillors would hinder this----
  ELINA.  Ay, they would hinder it----!  But are we to endure such
things?  Are we to look on quietly while----?
  LADY INGER.  No, we will not endure it.  But to take up arms--to
begin open warfare--what would come of that, so long as we are not
united?  And were we ever less united in this land than we are even
now?--No, if aught is to be done, it must be done secretly and in
silence.  Even as I said, we must have time to draw breath.  In the
South, a good part of the nobles are for the Dane; but here in the
North they are still in doubt.  Therefore King Frederick has sent
hither one of his most trusted councillors, to assure himself with
his own eyes how we stand affected.
  ELINA (anxiously).  Well--and then----?
  LADY INGER.  He is the guest I look for to-night.
  ELINA.  He comes here?  And to-night?
  LADY INGER.  He reached Trondhiem yesterday by a trading ship.
Word has just been brought that he is coming to visit me; he may
be here within the hour.
  ELINA.  Have you not thought, my mother, how it will endanger
your fame thus to receive the Danish envoy?  Do not the people
already regard you with distrustful eyes?  How can you hope that,
when the time comes, they will let you rule and guide them, if
it be known----
  LADY INGER.  Fear not.  All this I have fully weighed; but there
is no danger.  His errand in Norway is a secret; he has come unknown
to Trondhiem, and unknown shall he be our guest at Ostrat.
  ELINA.  And the name of this Danish lord----?
  LADY INGER.  It sounds well, Elina; Denmark has scarce a nobler
name.
  ELINA.  But what do you propose then?  I cannot yet grasp your
meaning.
  LADY INGER.  You will soon understand.--Since we cannot trample
on the serpent, we must bind him.
  ELINA.  Take heed that he burst not your bonds.
  LADY INGER.  It rests with you to tighten them as you will.
