"This is Demi's and my private place; we made it, and nobody can come up
unless we let 'em, except Daisy, we don't mind her," said Tommy, as Nat
looked with delight from the babbling brown water below to the green
arch above, where bees were making a musical murmur as they feasted on
the long yellow blossoms that filled the air with sweetness.
"Oh, it's just beautiful!" cried Nat. "I do hope you'll let me up
sometimes. I never saw such a nice place in all my life. I'd like to be
a bird, and live here always."
"It is pretty nice. You can come if Demi don't mind, and I guess he
won't, because he said last night that he liked you."
"Did he?" and Nat smiled with pleasure, for Demi's regard seemed to be
valued by all the boys, partly because he was Father Bhaer's nephew, and
partly because he was such a sober, conscientious little fellow.
"Yes; Demi likes quiet chaps, and I guess he and you will get on if you
care about reading as he does."
Poor Nat's flush of pleasure deepened to a painful scarlet at those last
words, and he stammered out,
"I can't read very well; I never had any time; I was always fiddling
round, you know."
"I don't love it myself, but I can do it well enough when I want to,"
said Tommy, after a surprised look, which said as plainly as words, "A
boy twelve years old and can't read!"
"I can read music, anyway," added Nat, rather ruffled at having to
confess his ignorance.
"I can't;" and Tommy spoke in a respectful tone, which emboldened Nat to
say firmly,
"I mean to study real hard and learn every thing I can, for I never had
a chance before. Does Mr. Bhaer give hard lessons?"
"No; he isn't a bit cross; he sort of explains and gives you a boost
over the hard places. Some folks don't; my other master didn't. If we
missed a word, didn't we get raps on the head!" and Tommy rubbed his own
pate as if it tingled yet with the liberal supply of raps, the memory
of which was the only thing he brought away after a year with his "other
master."
"I think I could read this," said Nat, who had been examining the books.
"Read a bit, then; I'll help you," resumed Tommy, with a patronizing
air.
So Nat did his best, and floundered through a page with may friendly
"boosts" from Tommy, who told him he would soon "go it" as well as
anybody. Then they sat and talked boy-fashion about all sorts of things,
among others, gardening; for Nat, looking down from his perch, asked
what was planted in the many little patches lying below them on the
other side of the brook.
"These are our farms," said Tommy. "We each have our own patch, and
raise what we like in it, only have to choose different things, and
can't change till the crop is in, and we must keep it in order all
summer."
