Act fourth displayed the despairing Roderigo on the point of stabbing
himself, because he has been told that Zara has deserted him. Just as
the dagger is at his heart, a lovely song is sung under his window,
informing him that Zara is true, but in danger, and he can save her, if
he will. A key is thrown in, which unlocks the door, and in a spasm of
rapture he tears off his chains, and rushes away to find and rescue his
lady-love.
Act fifth opened with a stormy scene between Zara and Don Pedro. He
wishes her to go into a convent, but she won't hear of it; and, after a
touching appeal, is about to faint, when Roderigo dashes in and demands
her hand. Don Pedro refuses, because he is not rich. They shout and
gesticulate tremendously, but cannot agree, and Roderigo is about to
bear away the exhausted Zara, when the timid servant enters with a
letter and a bag from Hagar, who has mysteriously disappeared. The
latter informs the party that she bequeaths untold wealth to the young
pair, and an awful doom to Don Pedro, if he doesn't make them happy. The
bag is opened, and several quarts of tin money shower down upon the
stage, till it is quite glorified with the glitter. This entirely
softens the "stern sire": he consents without a murmur, all join in a
joyful chorus, and the curtain falls upon the lovers kneeling to receive
Don Pedro's blessing in attitudes of the most romantic grace.
  [Illustration: The lovers kneeling to receive Don Pedro's blessing]
Tumultuous applause followed, but received an unexpected check; for the
cot-bed, on which the "dress-circle" was built, suddenly shut up, and
extinguished the enthusiastic audience. Roderigo and Don Pedro flew to
the rescue, and all were taken out unhurt, though many were speechless
with laughter. The excitement had hardly subsided, when Hannah appeared,
with "Mrs. March's compliments, and would the ladies walk down to
supper."
This was a surprise, even to the actors; and, when they saw the table,
they looked at one another in rapturous amazement. It was like Marmee to
get up a little treat for them; but anything so fine as this was
unheard-of since the departed days of plenty. There was
ice-cream,--actually two dishes of it, pink and white,--and cake and
fruit and distracting French bonbons, and, in the middle of the table,
four great bouquets of hot-house flowers!
It quite took their breath away; and they stared first at the table and
then at their mother, who looked as if she enjoyed it immensely.
"Is it fairies?" asked Amy,
"It's Santa Claus," said Beth.
"Mother did it"; and Meg smiled her sweetest, in spite of her gray beard
and white eyebrows.
"Aunt March had a good fit, and sent the supper," cried Jo, with a
sudden inspiration.
"All wrong. Old Mr. Laurence sent it," replied Mrs. March.
"The Laurence boy's grandfather! What in the world put such a thing into
his head? We don't know him!" exclaimed Meg.
