"Girls, girls! _have_ you both got nice pocket-handkerchiefs?"
"Yes, yes, spandy nice, and Meg has cologne on hers," cried Jo, adding,
with a laugh, as they went on, "I do believe Marmee would ask that if we
were all running away from an earthquake."
"It is one of her aristocratic tastes, and quite proper, for a real lady
is always known by neat boots, gloves, and handkerchief," replied Meg,
who had a good many little "aristocratic tastes" of her own.
"Now don't forget to keep the bad breadth out of sight, Jo. Is my sash
right? and does my hair look _very_ bad?" said Meg, as she turned from
the glass in Mrs. Gardiner's dressing-room, after a prolonged prink.
"I know I shall forget. If you see me doing anything wrong, just remind
me by a wink, will you?" returned Jo, giving her collar a twitch and her
head a hasty brush.
"No, winking isn't lady-like; I'll lift my eyebrows if anything is
wrong, and nod if you are all right. Now hold your shoulders straight,
and take short steps, and don't shake hands if you are introduced to any
one: it isn't the thing."
"How _do_ you learn all the proper ways? I never can. Isn't that music
gay?"
             [Illustration: Mrs. Gardiner greeted them]
Down they went, feeling a trifle timid, for they seldom went to parties,
and, informal as this little gathering was, it was an event to them.
Mrs. Gardiner, a stately old lady, greeted them kindly, and handed them
over to the eldest of her six daughters. Meg knew Sallie, and was at her
ease very soon; but Jo, who didn't care much for girls or girlish
gossip, stood about, with her back carefully against the wall, and felt
as much out of place as a colt in a flower-garden. Half a dozen jovial
lads were talking about skates in another part of the room, and she
longed to go and join them, for skating was one of the joys of her life.
She telegraphed her wish to Meg, but the eyebrows went up so alarmingly
that she dared not stir. No one came to talk to her, and one by one the
group near her dwindled away, till she was left alone. She could not
roam about and amuse herself, for the burnt breadth would show, so she
stared at people rather forlornly till the dancing began. Meg was asked
at once, and the tight slippers tripped about so briskly that none would
have guessed the pain their wearer suffered smilingly. Jo saw a big
redheaded youth approaching her corner, and fearing he meant to engage
her, she slipped into a curtained recess, intending to peep and enjoy
herself in peace. Unfortunately, another bashful person had chosen the
same refuge; for, as the curtain fell behind her, she found herself face
to face with the "Laurence boy."
           [Illustration: Face to face with the Laurence boy]
"Dear me, I didn't know any one was here!" stammered Jo, preparing to
back out as speedily as she had bounced in.
