"I'd like it ever so much, and I'll give you this one, and they can live
together if they don't fight. Those white mice are Rob's, Franz gave
'em to him. The rabbits are Ned's, and the bantams outside are Stuffy's.
That box thing is Demi's turtle-tank, only he hasn't begun to get 'em
yet. Last year he had sixty-two, whackers some of 'em. He stamped one of
'em with his name and the year, and let it go; and he says maybe he will
find it ever so long after and know it. He read about a turtle being
found that had a mark on it that showed it must be hundreds of years
old. Demi's such a funny chap."
"What is in this box?" asked Nat, stopping before a large deep one,
half-full of earth.
"Oh, that's Jack Ford's worm-shop. He digs heaps of 'em and keeps 'em
here, and when we want any to go afishing with, we buy some of him. It
saves lots of trouble, only he charged too much for 'em. Why, last time
we traded I had to pay two cents a dozen, and then got little ones.
Jack's mean sometimes, and I told him I'd dig for myself if he didn't
lower his prices. Now, I own two hens, those gray ones with top knots,
first-rate ones they are too, and I sell Mrs. Bhaer the eggs, but I
never ask her more than twenty-five cents a dozen, never! I'd be ashamed
to do it," cried Tommy, with a glance of scorn at the worm-shop.
"Who owns the dogs?" asked Nat, much interested in these commercial
transactions, and feeling that T. Bangs was a man whom it would be a
privilege and a pleasure to patronize.
"The big dog is Emil's. His name is Christopher Columbus. Mrs. Bhaer
named him because she likes to say Christopher Columbus, and no one
minds it if she means the dog," answered Tommy, in the tone of a
show-man displaying his menagerie. "The white pup is Rob's, and the
yellow one is Teddy's. A man was going to drown them in our pond, and
Pa Bhaer wouldn't let him. They do well enough for the little chaps, I
don't think much of 'em myself. Their names are Castor and Pollux."
"I'd like Toby the donkey best, if I could have anything, it's so nice
to ride, and he's so little and good," said Nat, remembering the weary
tramps he had taken on his own tired feet.
"Mr. Laurie sent him out to Mrs. Bhaer, so she shouldn't carry Teddy
on her back when we go to walk. We're all fond of Toby, and he's a
first-rate donkey, sir. Those pigeons belong to the whole lot of us, we
each have our pet one, and go shares in all the little ones as they come
along. Squabs are great fun; there ain't any now, but you can go up and
take a look at the old fellows, while I see if Cockletop and Granny have
laid any eggs."
