As Canterville Chase is seven miles from Ascot, the nearest railway
station, Mr. Otis had telegraphed for a waggonette to meet them, and they
started on their drive in high spirits.  It was a lovely July evening,
and the air was delicate with the scent of the pine-woods.  Now and then
they heard a wood pigeon brooding over its own sweet voice, or saw, deep
in the rustling fern, the burnished breast of the pheasant.  Little
squirrels peered at them from the beech-trees as they went by, and the
rabbits scudded away through the brushwood and over the mossy knolls,
with their white tails in the air.  As they entered the avenue of
Canterville Chase, however, the sky became suddenly overcast with clouds,
a curious stillness seemed to hold the atmosphere, a great flight of
rooks passed silently over their heads, and, before they reached the
house, some big drops of rain had fallen.
Standing on the steps to receive them was an old woman, neatly dressed in
black silk, with a white cap and apron.  This was Mrs. Umney, the
housekeeper, whom Mrs. Otis, at Lady Canterville’s earnest request, had
consented to keep on in her former position.  She made them each a low
curtsey as they alighted, and said in a quaint, old-fashioned manner, ‘I
bid you welcome to Canterville Chase.’  Following her, they passed
through the fine Tudor hall into the library, a long, low room, panelled
in black oak, at the end of which was a large stained-glass window.  Here
they found tea laid out for them, and, after taking off their wraps, they
sat down and began to look round, while Mrs. Umney waited on them.
Suddenly Mrs. Otis caught sight of a dull red stain on the floor just by
the fireplace and, quite unconscious of what it really signified, said to
Mrs. Umney, ‘I am afraid something has been spilt there.’
‘Yes, madam,’ replied the old housekeeper in a low voice, ‘blood has been
spilt on that spot.’
‘How horrid,’ cried Mrs. Otis; ‘I don’t at all care for blood-stains in a
sitting-room.  It must be removed at once.’
The old woman smiled, and answered in the same low, mysterious voice, ‘It
is the blood of Lady Eleanore de Canterville, who was murdered on that
very spot by her own husband, Sir Simon de Canterville, in 1575.  Sir
Simon survived her nine years, and disappeared suddenly under very
mysterious circumstances.  His body has never been discovered, but his
guilty spirit still haunts the Chase.  The blood-stain has been much
admired by tourists and others, and cannot be removed.’
‘That is all nonsense,’ cried Washington Otis; ‘Pinkerton’s Champion
Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent will clean it up in no time,’ and
before the terrified housekeeper could interfere he had fallen upon his
knees, and was rapidly scouring the floor with a small stick of what
looked like a black cosmetic.  In a few moments no trace of the
blood-stain could be seen.
‘I knew Pinkerton would do it,’ he exclaimed triumphantly, as he looked
round at his admiring family; but no sooner had he said these words than
a terrible flash of lightning lit up the sombre room, a fearful peal of
thunder made them all start to their feet, and Mrs. Umney fainted.
