   "Pilgrim's Progress," Krummacher's "Parables," Miss Edgeworth,
   and the best of the dear old fairy tales made the reading hour
   the pleasantest of our day. On Sundays we had a simple service of
   Bible stories, hymns, and conversation about the state of our
   little consciences and the conduct of our childish lives which
   never will be forgotten.
   Walks each morning round the Common while in the city, and long
   tramps over hill and dale when our home was in the country, were
   a part of our education, as well as every sort of housework,--for
   which I have always been very grateful, since such knowledge
   makes one independent in these days of domestic tribulation with
   the "help" who are too often only hindrances.
   Needle-work began early, and at ten my skilful sister made a
   linen shirt beautifully; while at twelve I set up as a doll's
   dressmaker, with my sign out and wonderful models in my window.
   All the children employed me, and my turbans were the rage at one
   time, to the great dismay of the neighbors' hens, who were hotly
   hunted down, that I might tweak out their downiest feathers to
   adorn the dolls' headgear.
   Active exercise was my delight, from the time when a child of six
   I drove my hoop round the Common without stopping, to the days
   when I did my twenty miles in five hours and went to a party in
   the evening.
   I always thought I must have been a deer or a horse in some
   former state, because it was such a joy to run. No boy could be
   my friend till I had beaten him in a race, and no girl if she
   refused to climb trees, leap fences, and be a tomboy.
   My wise mother, anxious to give me a strong body to support a
   lively brain, turned me loose in the country and let me run wild,
   learning of Nature what no books can teach, and being led,--as
   those who truly love her seldom fail to be,--
     "Through Nature up to Nature's God."
   I remember running over the hills just at dawn one summer
   morning, and pausing to rest in the silent woods, saw, through an
   arch of trees, the sun rise over river, hill, and wide green
   meadows as I never saw it before.
   Something born of the lovely hour, a happy mood, and the
   unfolding aspirations of a child's soul seemed to bring me very
   near to God; and in the hush of that morning hour I always felt
   that I "got religion," as the phrase goes. A new and vital sense
   of His presence, tender and sustaining as a father's arms, came
   to me then, never to change through forty years of life's
   vicissitudes, but to grow stronger for the sharp discipline of
   poverty and pain, sorrow and success.
   Those Concord days were the happiest of my life, for we had
   charming playmates in the little Emersons, Channings, Hawthornes,
   and Goodwins, with the illustrious parents and their friends to
   enjoy our pranks and share our excursions.
