   I have made a plan for my life, as I am in my teens and no more a
   child. I am old for my age, and don't care much for girl's
   things. People think I'm wild and queer; but Mother understands
   and helps me. I have not told any one about my plan; but I'm
   going to _be_ good. I've made so many resolutions, and written
   sad notes, and cried over my sins, and it doesn't seem to do any
   good! Now I'm going to _work really_, for I feel a true desire to
   improve, and be a help and comfort, not a care and sorrow, to my
   dear mother.
 _Fifteen Years Old._
   _Sunday, Oct. 9, 1847._--I have been reading to-day Bettine's
   correspondence with Goethe.
   She calls herself a child, and writes about the lovely things she
   saw and heard, and felt and did. I liked it much.
   [First taste of Goethe. Three years later R. W. E. gave me
   "Wilhelm Meister," and from that day Goethe has been my chief
   idol.--L. M. A., 1885.]
The experiment at Fruitlands was (outwardly) an utter failure, and had
exhausted Mr. Alcott's resources of mind, body, and estate. Louisa has
not exaggerated the collapse which followed. But the brave, loving
mother could not give way to despondency, for she had her young to
care for. After a few days Mr. Alcott rose from his despair, and
listened to her counsel. They lived a short time at Still River, and
then returned to Concord; but not to the happy little cottage.
Mr. Alcott sought such work as he could find to do with his hands; but
it was scanty and insufficient. Mrs. Alcott subdued her proud heart to
the necessity of seeking help from friends. They had a few rooms in
the house of a kind neighbor, who welcomed them to her house, in
addition to her own large family; and there they struggled with the
poverty which Louisa for the first time fully realized.
Yet her journal says little of the hardships they endured, but is full
of her mental and moral struggles. It was characteristic of this
family that they never were conquered by their surroundings. Mr.
Alcott might retire into sad and silent musing, Mrs. Alcott's warm,
quick temper, might burst out into flame, the children might be
quarrelsome or noisy; but their ideal of life always remained high,
fresh, and ennobling. Their souls always "knew their destiny divine,"
and believed that they would find fitting expression in life some
time. "Chill penury" could not repress "their noble rage," nor freeze
"the genial current" of their souls.
The children escaped from the privations of daily life into a world of
romance, and in the plays in the old barn revelled in luxury and
splendor. This dramatic tendency was very strong in Louisa, and she
never outgrew it. It took various shapes and colors, and at one time
threatened to dominate her life.
The education of the children was certainly desultory and
insufficient; but it was inspiring, and brought out their powers. They
learned to feel and to think justly, and to express their thoughts and
feelings freely and forcibly, if they did not know well the rules of
grammar and rhetoric. Mr. Alcott always loved the study of language,
and became a master of it; while Mrs. Alcott had a rich and
well-chosen vocabulary, gained from the intelligent companions of her
youth and the best literature, which she read freely. Mr. Alcott made
great use of the study of language in his teaching, and often employed
the definition of a word to convey a lesson or a rebuke. The children
were encouraged, and even required, to keep their journals regularly,
and to write letters. Their efforts at poetry or the drama were not
laughed at, but treasured by their parents as indications of progress.
Mr. Alcott's records of his own theory and practice in the education
of children are full of valuable suggestion, and much yet remains
buried in his journals. The girls had full freedom to act out their
natures, with little fear of ridicule or criticism. An innate sense of
dignity and modesty kept them from abusing this liberty; and perhaps
nowhere in the world could it have been more safely indulged than in
the simple life of Concord, whose very atmosphere seemed then filled
with a spiritual presence which made life free, pure, and serene.
