The door opened, and, gazing out of his cloud of steam, he saw a man and
a woman pausing on the threshold.
"Come in," he said peremptorily, "and shut the door!"
Peering through the steam, he could make out but little of their personal
appearance.  The nose and cheek strap worn by the woman and the trail-
wrappings about her head allowed only a pair of black eyes to be seen.
The man was dark-eyed and smooth-shaven all except his mustache, which
was so iced up as to hide his mouth.
"We just wanted to know if there is any other cabin around here," he
said, at the same time glancing over the unfurnished state of the room.
"We thought this cabin was empty."
"It isn't my cabin," Messner answered.  "I just found it a few minutes
ago.  Come right in and camp.  Plenty of room, and you won't need your
stove.  There's room for all."
At the sound of his voice the woman peered at him with quick curiousness.
"Get your things off," her companion said to her.  "I'll unhitch and get
the water so we can start cooking."
Messner took the thawed salmon outside and fed his dogs.  He had to guard
them against the second team of dogs, and when he had reentered the cabin
the other man had unpacked the sled and fetched water.  Messner's pot was
boiling.  He threw in the coffee, settled it with half a cup of cold
water, and took the pot from the stove.  He thawed some sour-dough
biscuits in the oven, at the same time heating a pot of beans he had
boiled the night before and that had ridden frozen on the sled all
morning.
Removing his utensils from the stove, so as to give the newcomers a
chance to cook, he proceeded to take his meal from the top of his grub-
box, himself sitting on his bed-roll.  Between mouthfuls he talked trail
and dogs with the man, who, with head over the stove, was thawing the ice
from his mustache.  There were two bunks in the cabin, and into one of
them, when he had cleared his lip, the stranger tossed his bed-roll.
"We'll sleep here," he said, "unless you prefer this bunk.  You're the
first comer and you have first choice, you know."
"That's all right," Messner answered.  "One bunk's just as good as the
other."
He spread his own bedding in the second bunk, and sat down on the edge.
The stranger thrust a physician's small travelling case under his
blankets at one end to serve for a pillow.
"Doctor?" Messner asked.
"Yes," came the answer, "but I assure you I didn't come into the Klondike
to practise."
The woman busied herself with cooking, while the man sliced bacon and
fired the stove.  The light in the cabin was dim, filtering through in a
small window made of onion-skin writing paper and oiled with bacon
grease, so that John Messner could not make out very well what the woman
looked like.  Not that he tried.  He seemed to have no interest in her.
But she glanced curiously from time to time into the dark corner where he
sat.
