LETTER 11th LAURA in continuation
"I have a Relation in Scotland (said Sophia to me as we left London) who
I am certain would not hesitate in receiving me." "Shall I order the Boy
to drive there?" said I--but instantly recollecting myself, exclaimed,
"Alas I fear it will be too long a Journey for the Horses." Unwilling
however to act only from my own inadequate Knowledge of the Strength and
Abilities of Horses, I consulted the Postilion, who was entirely of my
Opinion concerning the Affair. We therefore determined to change Horses
at the next Town and to travel Post the remainder of the Journey--. When
we arrived at the last Inn we were to stop at, which was but a few miles
from the House of Sophia's Relation, unwilling to intrude our Society on
him unexpected and unthought of, we wrote a very elegant and well
penned Note to him containing an account of our Destitute and melancholy
Situation, and of our intention to spend some months with him in
Scotland. As soon as we had dispatched this Letter, we immediately
prepared to follow it in person and were stepping into the Carriage
for that Purpose when our attention was attracted by the Entrance of
a coroneted Coach and 4 into the Inn-yard. A Gentleman considerably
advanced in years descended from it. At his first Appearance my
Sensibility was wonderfully affected and e'er I had gazed at him a 2d
time, an instinctive sympathy whispered to my Heart, that he was my
Grandfather. Convinced that I could not be mistaken in my conjecture I
instantly sprang from the Carriage I had just entered, and following the
Venerable Stranger into the Room he had been shewn to, I threw myself
on my knees before him and besought him to acknowledge me as his Grand
Child. He started, and having attentively examined my features, raised
me from the Ground and throwing his Grand-fatherly arms around my Neck,
exclaimed, "Acknowledge thee! Yes dear resemblance of my Laurina and
Laurina's Daughter, sweet image of my Claudia and my Claudia's Mother,
I do acknowledge thee as the Daughter of the one and the Grandaughter of
the other." While he was thus tenderly embracing me, Sophia astonished
at my precipitate Departure, entered the Room in search of me. No sooner
had she caught the eye of the venerable Peer, than he exclaimed with
every mark of Astonishment--"Another Grandaughter! Yes, yes, I see you
are the Daughter of my Laurina's eldest Girl; your resemblance to the
beauteous Matilda sufficiently proclaims it. "Oh!" replied Sophia, "when
I first beheld you the instinct of Nature whispered me that we were in
some degree related--But whether Grandfathers, or Grandmothers, I could
not pretend to determine." He folded her in his arms, and whilst they
were tenderly embracing, the Door of the Apartment opened and a most
beautifull young Man appeared. On perceiving him Lord St. Clair started
and retreating back a few paces, with uplifted Hands, said, "Another
Grand-child! What an unexpected Happiness is this! to discover in the
space of 3 minutes, as many of my Descendants! This I am certain is
Philander the son of my Laurina's 3d girl the amiable Bertha; there
wants now but the presence of Gustavus to compleat the Union of my
Laurina's Grand-Children."
