"I never can think such tremendous, knock-me-down figures in the least
degree elegant, and as for their eyes, they are so tall that I never
could strain my neck enough to look at them."
"Nay, (replied he) I know not whether you may not be in the right in not
attempting it, for perhaps they might dazzle you with their Lustre."
"Oh! Certainly. (said I, with the greatest complacency, for I assure
you my dearest Charlotte I was not in the least offended tho' by what
followed, one would suppose that William was conscious of having given
me just cause to be so, for coming up to me and taking my hand, he said)
"You must not look so grave Susan; you will make me fear I have offended
you!"
"Offended me! Dear Brother, how came such a thought in your head!
(returned I) No really! I assure you that I am not in the least
surprised at your being so warm an advocate for the Beauty of these
girls."--
"Well, but (interrupted William) remember that we have not yet
concluded our dispute concerning them. What fault do you find with their
complexion?"
"They are so horridly pale."
"They have always a little colour, and after any exercise it is
considerably heightened."
"Yes, but if there should ever happen to be any rain in this part of
the world, they will never be able raise more than their common
stock--except indeed they amuse themselves with running up and Down
these horrid old galleries and Antichambers."
"Well, (replied my Brother in a tone of vexation, and glancing an
impertinent look at me) if they HAVE but little colour, at least, it is
all their own."
This was too much my dear Charlotte, for I am certain that he had the
impudence by that look, of pretending to suspect the reality of mine.
But you I am sure will vindicate my character whenever you may hear
it so cruelly aspersed, for you can witness how often I have protested
against wearing Rouge, and how much I always told you I disliked it. And
I assure you that my opinions are still the same.--. Well, not bearing
to be so suspected by my Brother, I left the room immediately, and have
been ever since in my own Dressing-room writing to you. What a long
letter have I made of it! But you must not expect to receive such from
me when I get to Town; for it is only at Lesley castle, that one has
time to write even to a Charlotte Lutterell.--. I was so much vexed by
William's glance, that I could not summon Patience enough, to stay and
give him that advice respecting his attachment to Matilda which had
first induced me from pure Love to him to begin the conversation; and
I am now so thoroughly convinced by it, of his violent passion for her,
that I am certain he would never hear reason on the subject, and I
shall there fore give myself no more trouble either about him or his
favourite. Adeiu my dear girl--Yrs affectionately Susan L.
