"Well my dear William what do you think of these girls? for my part, I
do not find them so plain as I expected: but perhaps you may think me
partial to the Daughters of my Husband and perhaps you are right--They
are indeed so very like Sir George that it is natural to think"--
"My Dear Susan (cried he in a tone of the greatest amazement) You do not
really think they bear the least resemblance to their Father! He is so
very plain!--but I beg your pardon--I had entirely forgotten to whom I
was speaking--"
"Oh! pray dont mind me; (replied I) every one knows Sir George is
horribly ugly, and I assure you I always thought him a fright."
"You surprise me extremely (answered William) by what you say both with
respect to Sir George and his Daughters. You cannot think your Husband
so deficient in personal Charms as you speak of, nor can you surely see
any resemblance between him and the Miss Lesleys who are in my opinion
perfectly unlike him and perfectly Handsome."
"If that is your opinion with regard to the girls it certainly is no
proof of their Fathers beauty, for if they are perfectly unlike him and
very handsome at the same time, it is natural to suppose that he is very
plain."
"By no means, (said he) for what may be pretty in a Woman, may be very
unpleasing in a Man."
"But you yourself (replied I) but a few minutes ago allowed him to be
very plain."
"Men are no Judges of Beauty in their own Sex." (said he).
"Neither Men nor Women can think Sir George tolerable."
"Well, well, (said he) we will not dispute about HIS Beauty, but your
opinion of his DAUGHTERS is surely very singular, for if I understood
you right, you said you did not find them so plain as you expected to
do!"
"Why, do YOU find them plainer then?" (said I).
"I can scarcely beleive you to be serious (returned he) when you speak
of their persons in so extroidinary a Manner. Do not you think the Miss
Lesleys are two very handsome young Women?"
"Lord! No! (cried I) I think them terribly plain!"
"Plain! (replied He) My dear Susan, you cannot really think so! Why
what single Feature in the face of either of them, can you possibly find
fault with?"
"Oh! trust me for that; (replied I). Come I will begin with the
eldest--with Matilda. Shall I, William?" (I looked as cunning as I could
when I said it, in order to shame him).
"They are so much alike (said he) that I should suppose the faults of
one, would be the faults of both."
"Well, then, in the first place; they are both so horribly tall!"
"They are TALLER than you are indeed." (said he with a saucy smile.)
"Nay, (said I), I know nothing of that."
"Well, but (he continued) tho' they may be above the common size, their
figures are perfectly elegant; and as to their faces, their Eyes are
beautifull."
