Then, with the comfortable arm around her, the roses stirring with the
flutter of her heart, and the sightless eyes looking up as if they could
see the face of the deliverer, Lizzie heard the wonderful story of the
House Beautiful standing white and spacious on the hill, with the blue
sea before it, the fresh wind always blowing, the green gardens and
parks all about, and inside, music, happy voices, shining faces, busy
hands, and year after year the patient teaching by those who dedicate
themselves to this noble and tender task.
"It must be better'n heaven!" cried Lizzie, as she heard of work and
play, health and happiness, love and companionship, usefulness and
independence,--all the dear rights and simple joys young creatures
hunger for, and perish, soul and body, without.
It was too much for her little mind to grasp at once, and she lay as if
in a blissful dream long after the kind visitor had gone, promising to
come again and to find some way for Lizzie to enter into that lovely
place where darkness is changed to light.
That visit was like magic medicine, and the child grew better at once,
for hope was born in her heart.  The heavy gloom seemed to lift;
discomforts were easier to bear; and solitude was peopled now with
troops of happy children living in that wonderful place where blindness
was not a burden.  She told it all to her mother, and the poor woman
tried to believe it, but said sadly,--
"Don't set your heart on it, child.  It's easy to promise and to forget.
Rich folks don't trouble themselves about poor folks if they can help
it."
But Lizzie's faith never wavered, though the roses faded as day after
day went by and no one came.  The mere thought that it was possible to
teach blind people to work and study and play seemed to give her
strength and courage.  She got up and sat at the window again, singing
to herself as she watched and waited, with the dead flowers carefully
arranged in Billy's mug, and a hopeful smile on the little white face
behind the bars.
Every one was glad she was better, and nodded to one another as they
heard the soft crooning, like a dove's coo, in the pauses of the harsher
noises that filled the street.  The workmen tossed her sweeties and
whistled their gayest airs; the children brought their dilapidated toys
to amuse her; and one woman came every day to put her baby in Lizzie's
lap, it was such a pleasure to her to feel the soft little body in the
loving arms that longed for Billy.
Poor mother went to her work in better spirits, and the long hot days
were less oppressive as she thought, while she scrubbed, of Lizzie up
again; for she loved her helpless burden, heavy though she found it.
When Saturday came around, it rained hard, and no one expected "the
flower lady."  Even Lizzie said with a patient sigh and a hopeful
smile,--
