Instantly the long handle of the patriarchal Ladle was put down to his
rescue, and after a moment of suspense, while Prongs caught firmly hold,
up he came, hot and dusty, but otherwise unharmed by that dreadful fall.
Cheers greeted them, and every one lent a hand at the napkin as they
were hoisted to the table to be embraced by their joyful relatives and
friends.
"What did you think about down in that horrid place?" asked one of the
twins.
"I thought of a story I once heard master tell, about a child who was
found one cold day sitting with his feet on a newspaper, and when asked
what he was doing, answered, 'Warming my feet on the "Christian
Register."'  I hoped my register would be Christian enough not to melt
me before help came.  Ha! ha!  See the joke, my dears?" and Prongs
laughed as gayly as if he never had taken a header into a volcano.
"What did you see down there?" asked the other twin, curious, as all
small people are.
"Lots of dust and pins, a doll's head baby put there, Norah's thimble,
and the big red marble that boy Tony was raging about the other day.
It's a regular catch-all, and shows how the work is shirked in this
house," answered Prongs, stretching his legs, which were a little
damaged by the fall.
"What shall we do about the plates?" asked Pickle, from his bed.
"Let them lie, for we can't mend them. John will think the boy broke
them, and he'll get punished, as he deserves, for he broke a tumbler
yesterday, and put it slyly in the ash-barrel," said Miss Mustard,
spitefully.
"Oh!  I say, that's mean," began Tony; but no one listened, and in a
minute Prongs answered bravely,--
"I 'm a gentleman, and I don't let other people take the blame of my
scrapes.  Tony has enough of his own to answer for."
"I'll have that bent fork for mine, and make John keep it as bright as a
new dollar to pay for this.  Prongs is a trump, and I wish I could tell
him so," thought Tony, much gratified at this handsome behavior.
"Right, grandson.  I am pleased with you; but allow me to suggest that
the Chinese Mandarin on the chimney-piece be politely requested to mend
the plates.  He can  do that sort of thing nicely, and will be charmed
to oblige us, I am sure."
Grandpapa's suggestion was a good one; and Yam Ki Lo consented at once,
skipped to the floor, tapped the bits of china with his fan, and in the
twinkling of an eye was back on his perch, leaving two whole plates
behind him, for he was a wizard, and knew all about blue china.
Just as the silver people were rejoicing over this fine escape from
discovery, the clock struck, a bell rang, voices were heard upstairs,
and it was very evident that the family had arrived. At these sounds a
great flurry arose in the dining-room, as every spoon, fork, plate, and
napkin flew back to its place.  Pickle rushed to the jar, and plunged in
head first, regardless of his back; Miss Mustard retired to the caster;
the twins scrambled into the salt-cellar; and the silver dogs lay down
by the carving knife and fork as quietly as if they had never stirred a
leg; Grandpapa slowly reposed in his usual place; Madam followed his
example with dignity; the teaspoons climbed into the holder, uttering
little cries of alarm; and Prongs stayed to help them till he had barely
time to drop down at Tony's place, and lie there with his bent leg in
the air, the only sign of the great fall, about which he talked for a
long time afterward.  All was in order but the sauce-spoon, who had
stopped to laugh at the Mandarin till it was too late to get to her
corner; and before she could find any place of concealment, John came in
and caught her lying in the middle of the table, looking very common and
shabby among all the bright silver.
