He was a harp; all life that he had known and that was his consciousness
was the strings; and the flood of music was a wind that poured against
those strings and set them vibrating with memories and dreams.  He did
not merely feel.  Sensation invested itself in form and color and
radiance, and what his imagination dared, it objectified in some
sublimated and magic way.  Past, present, and future mingled; and he went
on oscillating across the broad, warm world, through high adventure and
noble deeds to Her--ay, and with her, winning her, his arm about her, and
carrying her on in flight through the empery of his mind.
And she, glancing at him across her shoulder, saw something of all this
in his face.  It was a transfigured face, with great shining eyes that
gazed beyond the veil of sound and saw behind it the leap and pulse of
life and the gigantic phantoms of the spirit.  She was startled.  The
raw, stumbling lout was gone.  The ill-fitting clothes, battered hands,
and sunburned face remained; but these seemed the prison-bars through
which she saw a great soul looking forth, inarticulate and dumb because
of those feeble lips that would not give it speech.  Only for a flashing
moment did she see this, then she saw the lout returned, and she laughed
at the whim of her fancy.  But the impression of that fleeting glimpse
lingered, and when the time came for him to beat a stumbling retreat and
go, she lent him the volume of Swinburne, and another of Browning--she
was studying Browning in one of her English courses.  He seemed such a
boy, as he stood blushing and stammering his thanks, that a wave of pity,
maternal in its prompting, welled up in her.  She did not remember the
lout, nor the imprisoned soul, nor the man who had stared at her in all
masculineness and delighted and frightened her.  She saw before her only
a boy, who was shaking her hand with a hand so calloused that it felt
like a nutmeg-grater and rasped her skin, and who was saying jerkily:-
"The greatest time of my life.  You see, I ain't used to things. . . "  He
looked about him helplessly.  "To people and houses like this.  It's all
new to me, and I like it."
"I hope you'll call again," she said, as he was saying good night to her
brothers.
He pulled on his cap, lurched desperately through the doorway, and was
gone.
"Well, what do you think of him?" Arthur demanded.
"He is most interesting, a whiff of ozone," she answered.  "How old is
he?"
"Twenty--almost twenty-one.  I asked him this afternoon.  I didn't think
he was that young."
And I am three years older, was the thought in her mind as she kissed her
brothers goodnight.
CHAPTER III
As Martin Eden went down the steps, his hand dropped into his coat
pocket.  It came out with a brown rice paper and a pinch of Mexican
tobacco, which were deftly rolled together into a cigarette.  He drew the
first whiff of smoke deep into his lungs and expelled it in a long and
lingering exhalation.  "By God!" he said aloud, in a voice of awe and
wonder.  "By God!" he repeated.  And yet again he murmured, "By God!"
Then his hand went to his collar, which he ripped out of the shirt and
stuffed into his pocket.  A cold drizzle was falling, but he bared his
head to it and unbuttoned his vest, swinging along in splendid unconcern.
He was only dimly aware that it was raining.  He was in an ecstasy,
dreaming dreams and reconstructing the scenes just past.
