It appear'd afterwards, that this _French_ Officer having been often
play'd upon by several in his Regiment, that he had been two Years among
them and never yet made any Experiment of his personal Courage, told
them at his going up to _Paris_, That they should here in a little Time
he had qualify'd himself by killing his Man. Now it is suppos'd he
thought the _British_ Nation, not being fam'd for their Skill in
handling the Sword, he had an excellent opportunity of showing his
Manhood, and the Advantage of making his escape when he had done the
Fact, because little or no Enquiry wou'd be made after a Stranger. My
Brother being convinc'd his Adversary was incapable to Rally, made haste
to gather up his Cloaths, exchanging the Evangelical Advice of _burying_
the dead, to that natural Precept of _Self-preservation_, and I must
leave him pursuing his Journey towards _Brest_, to return to his
Lodgings, and give an account how this Catastrophe came to affect me at
my coming to _Paris_.
The young Lady who was the Innocent occasion of this unfortunate
Accident, took little Rest after she was inform'd of the Contents of the
Note left by her Kinsman, and her Concern grew upon her when she
understood Captain _Ramkins_ was out of his Lodgings all Night; thus she
remain'd under great Inquietudes till Three a Clock the next Day, when
she, with her Landlady and Daughter, took a Coach privately and drove
directly to the Place where the Gentlemen were to meet according to the
Contents of the Letter. They discharg'd their Coach upon a pretence of
taking a Walk in the Fields, and after a small Tour the Landlady's
Daughter put her Foot into a Cake of clotted Blood, but it was so
chang'd, as to the Colour, that she could not well distinguish what it
was, but at a little distance finding a Glove, and several Blades of
Grass ting'd with a Vermillion Dye, being press'd down and ruffled as it
were with some Cattle weltring and tumbling about. They had a strong
Suspicion one of the Gentlemen had ended his Days upon the Spot, and to
clear their Suspicion, they walk'd back into the City till they arrived
at the _Petite Chastelet_, which is a publick Room in the Nature of a
Guard Bed, where all Corps are expos'd to view and whither People
usually go in quest of any of their Friends, or Acquaintance that are
wanting. And here the young Gentlewoman was quickly satisfy'd that her
Cousin's Rashness had brought him to his End. This Accident happening
not long before I came to _Paris_, the Discourse of it was very fresh,
and what occasion'd me to have an account of it at my first Arrival, was
my Lodging at the same House with my Brother, it being the usual
Lodgings for _English_ and _Scotch_. 'Tis true that Landlady and her
Daughter where remov'd to _Orleans_, where they had an _Estate_
belonging to their Family, but the young Lady, Cousin to the deceas'd
Officer, was still in her old Apartment. I had not been above three
Days, but my Name began to be known as well by the Direction of some
Letters I receiv'd out of _Germany_, as by other means there are of
having such Things divulg'd. The young Lady was not so struck with the
Horror of the Name of her Cousins Murtherer, as not to have the
Curiosity to peep at me as I came in and out of my Lodgings, and the
more, because I had so great a Resemblance to him both as to Figure and
Features, that without any extraordinary Skill in Physiognomy, she might
conclude I was either his Brother or some near Relation. Now whether my
Brother's Cavaliers Carriage had left an Idea in the Lady's Head which
she could not conveniently part with, or her Inquisitiveness after me
was only a Female Curiosity, I am not able to determine, but it was very
unfortunate to me to have been so near a Kin to one she admired in case
it was so, or that her Inquisitiveness should make me so publick; for I
had not been in _Paris_ above Eight Days, but the Archers or City Guards
took me out of my Bed at Four a Clock in the Morning, and carried me to
Prison upon strong Suspicion of being that very Captain _Ramkins_ who
had kill'd the _French_ Officer in a Duel. Captain _Ramkins_ I certainly
was call'd at my own Request, having taken that Travelling Name as all
Independent Gentlemen do, who cannot tell well what Title to give
themselves upon the Road. My case had no very good Aspect at the
beginning. There were so many Circumstances to render me suspected, that
though I was satisfy'd my Life was not in Danger, yet it was an easy
Thing to perceive it wou'd be both a troublesome, and also a chargeable
Spot of Work. The first Thing I did was to send for my Brother-in-law,
whom I employ'd as my Solicitor, to lay a true Narration of the Fact
before the King's Attorney. My Counsel advis'd me to _Subpoena_ the
young Lady, who wou'd be a material Witness that I was not the Captain
_Ramkins_ chargeable with the Fact, which she seem'd willingly to
acquiesce to; but some of the deceased Friends endeavour'd to invalidate
her _Affidavit_, upon a pretence, that there was too great an Intimacy
between her and Captain _Ramkins_. However, to put the Contest upon an
Issue which would allow of no Reply, I procured the Testimonies of
several Officers in the Army, that I was actually upon the _Rhine_ when
the Duel was fought at _Paris_, besides the corroborating Evidence of
several _Irish_ Gentlemen who liv'd in _Paris_ and at _St. Germains_,
who were ready to offer their Oaths I was not the Man. 'Tis incredible
to think what Pains the deceas'd Gentleman's Relations took to destroy
me, though I have the Charity to think they judg'd I was the Person they
sought after, though it is somewhat unintelligible they wou'd not Credit
the young Lady their Cousin. This Affair help'd me off with the greatest
Part of my ready Money, for 'tis a Blessing which attends all Law-Suits,
that the Gainer is oblig'd to refund to the Lawyers what he recovers
from his Adversary, and for my part, I pay'd pretty dear for an
Authentick Copy of my Innocence; and the Carriage of the Court to me was
such, as if I had been particularly favour'd in not being hang'd instead
of my Brother.
