Thus much I must say for the Jacobite Party, never were Men more baffled
and rallied oftner upon Projects or Hopes, but the unwholesome Diet
never turn into the Substance, but infects the Body with peccant
Humours, which now and then are discharg'd by Phlegbotomy, and then they
turn to a Gangreen by Amputation. Jacobitism (I speak of it in relation
to the strong Hopes they have of succeeding by a _French_ Power) is an
uncurable Distemper. I have often wonder'd to hear Persons, otherwise of
great Penetration and Sense, grow constantly Delirious upon this Topick.
The Wagers that have been lost upon that very Prospect wou'd have
purchas'd him a little Kingdom. Time has open'd a great many People's
Eyes; but there is a set of Men who are enslaved to the _French_
Projects, and so far infatuated, that nothing can cure them. If fooling
him with sham Descents, neglecting all Opportunities of assisting, if
banishing him, excluding him by solemn Articles, will not satisfy 'em as
to this Particular, 'tis my Opinion they wou'd not be convinc'd, if they
should see _France_ chaffering for his Head, and finish the Twenty Eight
Years old Politicks with 100000_l_. being what is set upon it. There is
no extraordinary difference between disposing of another Man's Right,
and disposing of his Person. There was a Time when _France_ gloried in
the Ostentatious Title of being the Assylum of distress'd Monarchs, and
I remember I was once dispos'd to have almost deify'd their Monarch upon
that Score; but when I took the Frame of his Politics, and examin'd
every Wheel and Spring by which they moved, I rescued my self from the
Prejudices I had been nurs'd up in; and though I always pursu'd the same
End, yet I was a constant Enemy to their Method, which I was convinc'd
were all directed another Way, and that a Restoration upon a _French_
Footing was a Chimerical Project, and that if it had taken Effect by
their Arms, _England_ must have had another Doomsday-Book, and have
suffer'd once more under an Arbitary Discipline, more dreadful than that
of _William the Conqueror_, from whom _England_ has been struggling to
retrieve her self ever since. I had formerly made a Resolution with my
self not to hearken to a Love-Intrigue, but upon a Prospect of putting
an end to such Amusements. The long time I had been out of the Army,
gave me several Opportunities to make Enquiry after a Person who was
capable of making me happy in that Respect. I took a singular Care when
any Thing was offer'd that way, to consult my Reason more than my
Passions, and had fix'd before my Eyes, the per-plex'd State I liv'd in
those Weeks I held a Correspondence with the _Spanish_ Lady. 'Tis a
dangerous practice when a Person shuts his Eyes among Precipices, and
neglects Consultation where the Choice is hazardous. There liv'd in
_Paris_ a Collonel's Widow, neither very young, nor very handsome. The
intimacy I had with her Husband, who was kill'd in _Italy_, brought me
first acquainted with her. Her discreet Carriage in a great variety of
intricate Circumstances had often Charm'd me. There was no Difficulty in
a marriage State, but she had struggled with it; a morose Husband, the
Death of an only Child, the Gripes of Poverty when her Consort was in
the Army and lavish'd away his Income, were great Tryals in which she
always Triumph'd, and wore a stoical Constancy without any Reservedness.
She had a large Pension allow'd her for Life, upon account of her
Husband's Merits, who had done great Service during the Wars. Under
these Circumstances I attack'd, rather like a Judicious than a
Passionate Lover. The Method I took with her, was quite different to
what I observ'd in pursuing my _Spanish_ Mistress. There was no Balls,
Treats, nor Serenading, we both knew the World too well, either She to
expect, or I to offer her such Entertainments. In a Word, our whole
Discourse when I visited ran upon Oeconemy and Morals. It was not long
before she understood my Meaning, and that my repeated Visits tended
towards Marriage. She alledg'd several Things to divert me from it; that
she was tired with being an Officer's Wife, which oblig'd either to a
rambling Method of Living, or to labour under great Inconveniences, and
that I, perhaps, might not make the best of Husbands, that State being a
Lottery full of Blanks. I had nothing more pertinent to alledge upon
this Occasion, than to assure her, that during my Absence in the Army
she should never be unprovided with what would make her easie, and for
being a good Husband, I gave her all the Assurances that such a Matter
was capable of, and at the same time made her the Compliment, that in
case any misunderstanding should ever happen between us, her approv'd
Conduct and Discretion would certainly declare me Guilty. In conclusion,
I put on the Trummels, and never question'd but I had made the most
prudential Choice that any Person could do; but there is something in
Woman-kind which can never be found out by Study or Reflection. 'Tis
only Experience that can School a Husband, and can give him a true Idea
of that mysterious Creature; for in less than Twelve Months my Thousand
Pounds which I had so carefully kept unbroke at _Amsterdam_ was all
dispos'd of, my Soldiers Pay being my only Subsistance for myself and
Family, my Wife reserving her own Income for Pin-mony; my Credit very
low, my Days very irksome upon many accounts, and I who had hitherto
appear'd with Assurance in Company, because of my Money-merit, was now
Neglected; for every Tradesman began to smell out my Poverty. I am of
Opinion it would do Posterity no kindness, if I shou'd discover how I
came to be ruin'd by a Prudent Wife, for no Body wou'd Credit me. If I
should advise 'em to trust no Woman living, so as to give her full Scope
upon an Opinion of her Conduct. I took my self to be as wise, upon this
Head, as any Man living. It had been my Study above twenty Years. There
is a secret Devil in every Woman, which is often Conjur'd down by a
Husband's Temper; and though many Men may pass for bad Husbands by their
Morose Carriage, 'tis less prejudicial, than that Indulgence which few
Women have Discretion to make use of. My Wife's first Husband was
represented as not very kind to her, whereas his less obliging Temper
was the Effect of his Judgment, and a touch of Skill he had in managing
a Woman, whom Caresses wou'd have exalted into Impertinence, _&c._
