It was upon this tableau that Daughtry entered, and, while he admired
Michael much under the bright electric light, he realized the situation.
"Kwaque, you make 'm walk about leg belong you," he commanded, in order
to make sure.
Kwaque's glance of apprehension at Michael was convincing enough, but the
steward insisted.  Kwaque gingerly obeyed, but scarcely had his foot
moved an inch when Michael's was upon him.  The foot and leg petrified,
while Michael stiff-leggedly drew a half-circle of intimidation about
him.
"Got you nailed to the floor, eh?" Daughtry chuckled.  "Some
nigger-chaser, my word, any amount."
"Hey, you, Kwaque, go fetch 'm two fella bottle of beer stop 'm along
icey-chestis," he commanded in his most peremptory manner.
Kwaque looked beseechingly, but did not stir.  Nor did he stir at a
harsher repetition of the order.
"My word!" the steward bullied.  "Suppose 'm you no fetch 'm beer close
up, I knock 'm eight bells 'n 'a dog-watch onta you.  Suppose 'm you no
fetch 'm close up, me make 'm you go ashore 'n' walk about along King
William Island."
"No can," Kwaque murmured timidly.  "Eye belong dog look along me too
much.  Me no like 'm dog kai-kai along me."
"You fright along dog?" his master demanded.
"My word, me fright along dog any amount."
Dag Daughtry was delighted.  Also, he was thirsty from his trip ashore
and did not prolong the situation.
"Hey, you, dog," he addressed Michael.  "This fella boy he all right.
Savvee?  He all right."
Michael bobbed his tail and flattened his ears in token that he was
trying to understand.  When the steward patted the black on the shoulder,
Michael advanced and sniffed both the legs he had kept nailed to the
floor.
"Walk about," Daughtry commanded.  "Walk about slow fella," he cautioned,
though there was little need.
Michael bristled, but permitted the first timid step.  At the second he
glanced up at Daughtry to make certain.
"That's right," he was reassured.  "That fella boy belong me.  He all
right, you bet."
Michael smiled with his eyes that he understood, and turned casually
aside to investigate an open box on the floor which contained plates of
turtle-shell, hack-saws, and emery paper.
* * * * *
"And now," Dag Daughtry muttered weightily aloud, as, bottle in hand, he
leaned back in his arm-chair while Kwaque knelt at his feet to unlace his
shoes, "now to consider a name for you, Mister Dog, that will be just to
your breeding and fair to my powers of invention."
CHAPTER IV
Irish terriers, when they have gained maturity, are notable, not alone
for their courage, fidelity, and capacity for love, but for their cool-
headedness and power of self-control and restraint.  They are less easily
excited off their balance; they can recognize and obey their master's
voice in the scuffle and rage of battle; and they never fly into nervous
hysterics such as are common, say, with fox-terriers.
Michael possessed no trace of hysteria, though he was more
temperamentally excitable and explosive than his blood-brother Jerry,
while his father and mother were a sedate old couple indeed compared with
him.  Far more than mature Jerry, was mature Michael playful and
rowdyish.  His ebullient spirits were always on tap to spill over on the
slightest provocation, and, as he was afterwards to demonstrate, he could
weary a puppy with play.  In short, Michael was a merry soul.
