Everybody is clever nowadays. You can't go anywhere without meeting
clever people. This has become an absolute public nuisance.
I don't think man has much capacity for development. He has got as far
as he can, and that is not far, is it?
I am not quite sure that I quite know what pessimism really means. All I
do know is that life cannot be understood without much charity, cannot
be lived without much charity. It is love, and not German philosophy,
that is the explanation of this world, whatever may be the explanation
of the next.
I do not approve of anything that that tampers with natural arrogance.
Ignorance is like a delicate exotic fruit: touch it, and the blossom is
gone.
The whole theory of modern education is radically unsound. Fortunately,
in England, at any rate, education produces no effect whatsoever. If it
did it would prove a serious danger to the upper classes, and probably
lead to acts of violence in Grosvenor Square.
No woman should ever be quite accurate about her age. It looks so
calculating.
Emotion for the sake of emotion is the aim of art, and emotion for the
sake of emotion is the aim of life and of that practical organisation of
life that we call society.
Men of the noblest possible moral character are extremely susceptible to
the influence of the physical charms of others. Modern, no less than
ancient, history supplies us with many most painful examples of what I
refer to. If it were not so, indeed, history would be quite unreadable.
I am not in favour of long engagements. They give people the opportunity
of finding out each other's character before marriage, which I think is
never advisable.
It is a terrible thing for a man to find out suddenly that all his life
he has been speaking nothing but the truth.
The two weak points in our age are its want of principle and its want of
profile.
Thirty-five is a very attractive age. London society is full of women
who have of their own free choice remained thirty-five for years.
Never speak disrespectfully of society. Only people who can't get into
it do that.
It is always painful to part with people whom one has known for a very
brief space of time. The absence of old friends one can endure with
equanimity. But even a momentary separation from anyone to whom one has
just been introduced is almost unbearable.
To be natural is to be obvious, and to be obvious is to be inartistic.
One is tempted to define man as a rational animal who always loses his
temper when he is called upon to act in accordance with the dictates of
reason.
The essence of thought, as the essence of life, is growth.
What people call insincerity is simply a method by which we can multiply
our personalities.
In a temple everyone should be serious except the thing that is
worshipped.
We are never more true to ourselves than when we are inconsistent.
