Mr. Eugene Benson, one of the most cultured of those many Americans who
seem to have found their Mecca in modern Rome, has sent a picture of
Narcissus, a work full of the true Theocritean sympathy for the natural
picturesqueness of shepherd life, and entirely delightful to all who love
the peculiar qualities of Italian scenery.  The shadows of the trees
drifting across the grass, the crowding together of the sheep, and the
sense of summer air and light which fills the picture, are full of the
highest truth and beauty; and Mr. Forbes-Robertson, whose picture of
Phelps as Cardinal Wolsey has just been bought by the Garrick Club, and
who is himself so well known as a young actor of the very highest
promise, is represented by a portrait of Mr. Hermann Vezin which is
extremely clever and certainly very lifelike.  Nor amongst the minor
works must I omit to notice Miss Stuart-Wortley's view on the river
Cherwell, taken from the walks of Magdalen College, Oxford,--a little
picture marked by great sympathy for the shade and coolness of green
places and for the stillness of summer waters; or Mrs. Valentine
Bromley's Misty Day, remarkable for the excellent drawing of a breaking
wave, as well as for a great delicacy of tone.  Besides the Marchioness
of Waterford, whose brilliant treatment of colour is so well known, and
Mr. Richard Doyle, whose water-colour drawings of children and of fairy
scenes are always so fresh and bright, the qualities of the Irish genius
in the field of art find an entirely adequate exponent in Mr. Wills, who
as a dramatist and a painter has won himself such an honourable name.
Three pictures of his are exhibited here: the Spirit of the Shell, which
is perhaps too fanciful and vague in design; the Nymph and Satyr, where
the little goat-footed child has all the sweet mystery and romance of the
woodlands about him; and the Parting of Ophelia and Laertes, a work not
only full of very strong drawing, especially in the modelling of the male
figure, but a very splendid example of the power of subdued and reserved
colour, the perfect harmony of tone being made still more subtle by the
fitful play of reflected light on the polished armour.
I shall reserve for another notice the wonderful landscapes of Mr. Cecil
Lawson, who has caught so much of Turner's imagination and mode of
treatment, as well as a consideration of the works of Herkomer, Tissot
and Legros, and others of the modern realistic school.
Note.--The other notice mentioned above did not appear.
L'ENVOI
An Introduction to Rose Leaf and Apple Leaf by Rennell Rodd, published by
J. M. Stoddart and Co., Philadelphia, 1882.
Amongst the many young men in England who are seeking along with me to
continue and to perfect the English Renaissance--jeunes guerriers du
drapeau romantique, as Gautier would have called us--there is none whose
love of art is more flawless and fervent, whose artistic sense of beauty
is more subtle and more delicate--none, indeed, who is dearer to
myself--than the young poet whose verses I have brought with me to
America; verses full of sweet sadness, and yet full of joy; for the most
joyous poet is not he who sows the desolate highways of this world with
the barren seed of laughter, but he who makes his sorrow most musical,
this indeed being the meaning of joy in art--that incommunicable element
of artistic delight which, in poetry, for instance, comes from what Keats
called the 'sensuous life of verse,' the element of song in the singing,
made so pleasurable to us by that wonder of motion which often has its
origin in mere musical impulse, and in painting is to be sought for, from
the subject never, but from the pictorial charm only--the scheme and
symphony of the colour, the satisfying beauty of the design: so that the
ultimate expression of our artistic movement in painting has been, not in
the spiritual visions of the Pre-Raphaelites, for all their marvel of
Greek legend and their mystery of Italian song, but in the work of such
men as Whistler and Albert Moore, who have raised design and colour to
the ideal level of poetry and music.  For the quality of their exquisite
painting comes from the mere inventive and creative handling of line and
colour, from a certain form and choice of beautiful workmanship, which,
rejecting all literary reminiscence and all metaphysical idea, is in
itself entirely satisfying to the aesthetic sense--is, as the Greeks
would say, an end in itself; the effect of their work being like the
effect given to us by music; for music is the art in which form and
matter are always one--the art whose subject cannot be separated from the
method of its expression; the art which most completely realises for us
the artistic ideal, and is the condition to which all the other arts are
constantly aspiring.
