A miniature painter lived there, for there was a large gilt frame
screwed upon the street-door, in which were displayed, upon a black
velvet ground, two portraits of naval dress coats with faces looking
out of them, and telescopes attached; one of a young gentleman in a very
vermilion uniform, flourishing a sabre; and one of a literary character
with a high forehead, a pen and ink, six books, and a curtain. There
was, moreover, a touching representation of a young lady reading a
manuscript in an unfathomable forest, and a charming whole length of a
large-headed little boy, sitting on a stool with his legs fore-shortened
to the size of salt-spoons. Besides these works of art, there were a
great many heads of old ladies and gentlemen smirking at each other out
of blue and brown skies, and an elegantly written card of terms with an
embossed border.
Mr. Nickleby glanced at these frivolities with great contempt, and gave
a double knock, which, having been thrice repeated, was answered by a
servant girl with an uncommonly dirty face.
'Is Mrs. Nickleby at home, girl?' demanded Ralph sharply.
'Her name ain't Nickleby,' said the girl, 'La Creevy, you mean.'
Mr. Nickleby looked very indignant at the handmaid on being thus
corrected, and demanded with much asperity what she meant; which she
was about to state, when a female voice proceeding from a perpendicular
staircase at the end of the passage, inquired who was wanted.
'Mrs. Nickleby,' said Ralph.
'It's the second floor, Hannah,' said the same voice; 'what a stupid
thing you are! Is the second floor at home?'
'Somebody went out just now, but I think it was the attic which had been
a cleaning of himself,' replied the girl.
'You had better see,' said the invisible female. 'Show the gentleman
where the bell is, and tell him he mustn't knock double knocks for the
second floor; I can't allow a knock except when the bell's broke, and
then it must be two single ones.'
'Here,' said Ralph, walking in without more parley, 'I beg your pardon;
is that Mrs. La what's-her-name?'
'Creevy--La Creevy,' replied the voice, as a yellow headdress bobbed
over the banisters.
'I'll speak to you a moment, ma'am, with your leave,' said Ralph.
The voice replied that the gentleman was to walk up; but he had walked
up before it spoke, and stepping into the first floor, was received by
the wearer of the yellow head-dress, who had a gown to correspond, and
was of much the same colour herself. Miss La Creevy was a mincing
young lady of fifty, and Miss La Creevy's apartment was the gilt frame
downstairs on a larger scale and something dirtier.
'Hem!' said Miss La Creevy, coughing delicately behind her black silk
mitten. 'A miniature, I presume. A very strongly-marked countenance for
the purpose, sir. Have you ever sat before?'
'You mistake my purpose, I see, ma'am,' replied Mr. Nickleby, in his
usual blunt fashion. 'I have no money to throw away on miniatures,
ma'am, and nobody to give one to (thank God) if I had. Seeing you on the
stairs, I wanted to ask a question of you, about some lodgers here.'
