'My dear child,' said Mr. Squeers, 'all people have their trials. This
early trial of yours that is fit to make your little heart burst, and
your very eyes come out of your head with crying, what is it? Nothing;
less than nothing. You are leaving your friends, but you will have a
father in me, my dear, and a mother in Mrs. Squeers. At the delightful
village of Dotheboys, near Greta Bridge in Yorkshire, where youth are
boarded, clothed, booked, washed, furnished with pocket-money, provided
with all necessaries--'
'It IS the gentleman,' observed the stranger, stopping the schoolmaster
in the rehearsal of his advertisement. 'Mr. Squeers, I believe, sir?'
'The same, sir,' said Mr. Squeers, with an assumption of extreme
surprise.
'The gentleman,' said the stranger, 'that advertised in the Times
newspaper?'
'--Morning Post, Chronicle, Herald, and Advertiser, regarding the
Academy called Dotheboys Hall at the delightful village of Dotheboys,
near Greta Bridge in Yorkshire,' added Mr. Squeers. 'You come on
business, sir. I see by my young friends. How do you do, my little
gentleman? and how do you do, sir?' With this salutation Mr. Squeers
patted the heads of two hollow-eyed, small-boned little boys, whom the
applicant had brought with him, and waited for further communications.
'I am in the oil and colour way. My name is Snawley, sir,' said the
stranger.
Squeers inclined his head as much as to say, 'And a remarkably pretty
name, too.'
The stranger continued. 'I have been thinking, Mr. Squeers, of placing my
two boys at your school.'
'It is not for me to say so, sir,' replied Mr. Squeers, 'but I don't
think you could possibly do a better thing.'
'Hem!' said the other. 'Twenty pounds per annewum, I believe, Mr
Squeers?'
'Guineas,' rejoined the schoolmaster, with a persuasive smile.
'Pounds for two, I think, Mr. Squeers,' said Mr. Snawley, solemnly.
'I don't think it could be done, sir,' replied Squeers, as if he had
never considered the proposition before. 'Let me see; four fives is
twenty, double that, and deduct the--well, a pound either way shall not
stand betwixt us. You must recommend me to your connection, sir, and
make it up that way.'
'They are not great eaters,' said Mr. Snawley.
'Oh! that doesn't matter at all,' replied Squeers. 'We don't consider
the boys' appetites at our establishment.' This was strictly true; they
did not.
'Every wholesome luxury, sir, that Yorkshire can afford,' continued
Squeers; 'every beautiful moral that Mrs. Squeers can instil; every--in
short, every comfort of a home that a boy could wish for, will be
theirs, Mr. Snawley.'
'I should wish their morals to be particularly attended to,' said Mr
Snawley.
'I am glad of that, sir,' replied the schoolmaster, drawing himself up.
'They have come to the right shop for morals, sir.'
'You are a moral man yourself,' said Mr. Snawley.
'I rather believe I am, sir,' replied Squeers.
'I have the satisfaction to know you are, sir,' said Mr. Snawley. 'I
asked one of your references, and he said you were pious.'
