She was drawn to dwell upon these matters more than was natural, in the
first place owing to her mother's absorption in them, and in the second
because a great part of her time was spent in imagination with the dead,
since she was helping her mother to produce a life of the great poet.
When Katharine was seventeen or eighteen--that is to say, some ten years
ago--her mother had enthusiastically announced that now, with a daughter
to help her, the biography would soon be published. Notices to this
effect found their way into the literary papers, and for some time
Katharine worked with a sense of great pride and achievement.
Lately, however, it had seemed to her that they were making no way at
all, and this was the more tantalizing because no one with the ghost of
a literary temperament could doubt but that they had materials for one
of the greatest biographies that has ever been written. Shelves and
boxes bulged with the precious stuff. The most private lives of the
most interesting people lay furled in yellow bundles of close-written
manuscript. In addition to this Mrs. Hilbery had in her own head as
bright a vision of that time as now remained to the living, and could
give those flashes and thrills to the old words which gave them almost
the substance of flesh. She had no difficulty in writing, and covered a
page every morning as instinctively as a thrush sings, but nevertheless,
with all this to urge and inspire, and the most devout intention
to accomplish the work, the book still remained unwritten. Papers
accumulated without much furthering their task, and in dull moments
Katharine had her doubts whether they would ever produce anything at all
fit to lay before the public. Where did the difficulty lie? Not in their
materials, alas! nor in their ambitions, but in something more profound,
in her own inaptitude, and above all, in her mother's temperament.
Katharine would calculate that she had never known her write for more
than ten minutes at a time. Ideas came to her chiefly when she was in
motion. She liked to perambulate the room with a duster in her hand,
with which she stopped to polish the backs of already lustrous books,
musing and romancing as she did so. Suddenly the right phrase or the
penetrating point of view would suggest itself, and she would drop her
duster and write ecstatically for a few breathless moments; and then the
mood would pass away, and the duster would be sought for, and the old
books polished again. These spells of inspiration never burnt steadily,
but flickered over the gigantic mass of the subject as capriciously as
a will-o'-the-wisp, lighting now on this point, now on that. It was as
much as Katharine could do to keep the pages of her mother's manuscript
in order, but to sort them so that the sixteenth year of Richard
Alardyce's life succeeded the fifteenth was beyond her skill. And
yet they were so brilliant, these paragraphs, so nobly phrased, so
lightning-like in their illumination, that the dead seemed to crowd the
very room. Read continuously, they produced a sort of vertigo, and set
her asking herself in despair what on earth she was to do with them? Her
mother refused, also, to face the radical questions of what to leave in
and what to leave out. She could not decide how far the public was to
be told the truth about the poet's separation from his wife. She drafted
passages to suit either case, and then liked each so well that she could
not decide upon the rejection of either.
