"As soon as my comrades had eaten of the lotus, they became attached
to the Lotus-eaters, and desired to remain with them. They wept
bitterly when I commanded them to return to the ships, and I was
obliged to force them to go.
"I bound them down to the benches in the ships, and the whole company
went on board in haste lest they should never think of their homes
again. Each man bent to his oars, and the waves were soon white with
the beating of the ships against them as we sailed with all haste
in the direction of our own land.
"We sailed about on unknown seas and with sorrowing hearts until we
came to the land of the Cyclops. They are a wild people who have no
laws. They never plough the fields nor plant them, for everything
grows of its own accord--wheat, and barley, and the vine. The grapes
yield good wine. The Cyclops do not come together in a friendly way,
but live in caves near the mountain tops, each one in his own den.
They do not care much for one another, and each rules his wife and
children as he likes.
"There is a little woody island lying at the entrance to the land
of the Cyclops, on which swarm numberless wild goats, never disturbed
by human beings, for the Cyclops have no ships to take them over.
This island is very fertile, but there are no sheep to eat the grass
and no people to plough the fields. The goats are the only inhabitants.
The island has a harbor which is safe, and the ships that enter it
have no need of anchors or fastenings.
"In the midst of the harbor there is a cliff, from which bubbles forth
a spring of excellent water, and poplar-trees grow all around it.
The soil is so rich it might bear all kinds of fruit, if there were
anyone to plant them. There are beautiful meadows all along the coast,
which are gay with yellow fruit and pink blossoms.
"We were shaping our course toward this island, and a good breeze
brought us there on a dark night. The moon did not shine and none
of the crew saw the land until we were upon the shore. We lowered
our sails and rested there until morning. When daylight appeared we
beheld with wonder the island where the wild goats abounded. My
comrades walked around, admiring the beauty of the place, while the
nymphs, daughters of Zeus, roused the goats that they might give us
milk. We took our bows and arrows from the ships immediately and,
forming three hunting-parties, killed a great number of the nimble
creatures. Each of my twelve ships received nine goats as its share,
but mine received ten. The remainder of the day we passed in eating
and drinking."
CHAPTER XIV
THE CAVE OF THE CYCLOPS
"The next day I started with twelve men, the crew of my own ship,
to find out what kind of men inhabited the country opposite us, leaving
all the other boats and their men on the island. When we sailed up
to the coast of the mainland, we heard the voices of giants, and the
bleating of their sheep and goats. And we saw a cave with a high roof,
over whose entrance grew laurel shrubs, and many cattle, sheep, and
goats were lying around at rest. We found an enclosure of rough stone
in the form of a court, with tall pines and leafy oaks at the mouth
of the cave.
