“His brother!” exclaimed Rose, clasping her hands.
“Those were his words,” said Nancy, glancing uneasily round, as she had
scarcely ceased to do, since she began to speak, for a vision of Sikes
haunted her perpetually. “And more. When he spoke of you and the other
lady, and said it seemed contrived by Heaven, or the devil, against
him, that Oliver should come into your hands, he laughed, and said
there was some comfort in that too, for how many thousands and hundreds
of thousands of pounds would you not give, if you had them, to know who
your two-legged spaniel was.”
“You do not mean,” said Rose, turning very pale, “to tell me that this
was said in earnest.”
“He spoke in hard and angry earnest, if a man ever did,” replied the
girl, shaking her head. “He is an earnest man when his hatred is up.
I know many who do worse things; but I’d rather listen to them all a
dozen times than to that Monks once. It is growing late, and I have to
reach home without suspicion of having been on such an errand as this.
I must get back quickly.”
“But what can I do?” said Rose. “To what use can I turn this
communication without you? Back! Why do you wish to return to
companions you paint in such terrible colours. If you repeat this
information to a gentleman whom I can summon in one instant from the
next room, you can be consigned to some place of safety without half an
hour’s delay.”
“I wish to go back,” said the girl. “I must go back, because—how can I
tell such things to an innocent lady like you?—because among the men I
have told you of, there is one the most desperate among them all that I
can’t leave; no—not even to be saved from the life I am leading now.”
“Your having interfered in this dear boy’s behalf before,” said Rose;
“your coming here at so great a risk to tell me what you have heard;
your manner, which convinces me of the truth of what you say; your
evident contrition, and sense of shame, all lead me to believe that you
might be yet reclaimed. Oh!” said the earnest girl, folding her hands
as the tears coursed down her face, “do not turn a deaf ear to the
entreaties of one of your own sex; the first—the first, I do believe,
who ever appealed to you in the voice of pity and compassion. Do hear
my words, and let me save you yet for better things.”
“Lady,” cried the girl, sinking on her knees, “dear, sweet, angel lady,
you _are_ the first that ever blessed me with such words as these, and
if I had heard them years ago, they might have turned me from a life of
sin and sorrow; but it is too late—it is too late!”
“It is never too late,” said Rose, “for penitence and atonement.”
“It is,” cried the girl, writhing in the agony of her mind; “I cannot
leave him now—I could not be his death.”
