Disturbed by these different reflections—inclining now to one course
and then to another, and again recoiling from all as each successive
consideration presented itself to her mind, Rose passed a sleepless and
anxious night, and, after more communing with herself next day, arrived
at the desperate conclusion of consulting Harry Maylie.
“If it be painful to him,” she thought, “to come back here, how painful
will it be to me! But perhaps he will not come; he may write, or he may
come himself, and studiously abstain from meeting me—he did when he
went away. I hardly thought he would; but it was better for us both—a
great deal better.” And here Rose dropped the pen and turned away, as
though the very paper which was to be her messenger should not see her
weep.
She had taken up the same pen and laid it down again fifty times, and
had considered and re-considered the very first line of her letter
without writing the first word, when Oliver, who had been walking in
the streets with Mr. Giles for a body-guard, entered the room in such
breathless haste and violent agitation, as seemed to betoken some new
cause of alarm.
“What makes you look so flurried?” asked Rose, advancing to meet him.
“Speak to me, Oliver.”
“I hardly know how; I feel as if I should be choked,” replied the boy.
“Oh dear! to think that I should see him at last, and you should be
able to know that I have told you all the truth!”
“I never thought you had told us any thing but the truth, dear,” said
Rose, soothing him. “But what is this?—of whom do you speak?”
“I have seen the gentleman,” replied Oliver, scarcely able to
articulate, “the gentleman who was so good to me—Mr. Brownlow, that we
have so often talked about.”
“Where?” asked Rose.
“Getting out of a coach,” replied Oliver, shedding tears of delight,
“and going into a house. I didn’t speak to him—I couldn’t speak to
him, for he didn’t see me, and I trembled so, that I was not able to go
up to him. But Giles asked for me whether he lived there, and they said
he did. Look here,” said Oliver, opening a scrap of paper, “here it is;
here’s where he lives—I’m going there directly. Oh, dear me, dear me!
what shall I do when I come to see him and hear him speak again!”
With her attention not a little distracted by these and a great many
other incoherent exclamations of joy, Rose read the address, which was
Craven-street, in the Strand, and very soon determined upon turning the
discovery to account.
“Quick!” she said, “tell them to fetch a hackney-coach, and be ready to
go with me. I will take you there directly, without a minute’s loss of
time. I will only tell my aunt that we are going out for an hour, and
be ready as soon as you are.”
Oliver needed no prompting to despatch, and in little more than five
minutes they were on their way to Craven-street. When they arrived
there, Rose left Oliver in the coach under pretence of preparing the
old gentleman to receive him, and sending up her card by the servant,
requested to see Mr. Brownlow on very pressing business. The servant
soon returned to beg that she would walk up stairs, and, following him
into an upper room, Miss Maylie was presented to an elderly gentleman
of benevolent appearance, in a bottle-green coat; at no great distance
from whom was seated another old gentleman, in nankeen breeches and
gaiters, who did not look particularly benevolent, and who was sitting
with his hands clasped on the top of a thick stick, and his chin
propped thereupon.
