“It’s all very well,” said Mr. Sikes; “but I must have some blunt from
you to-night.”
“I haven’t a piece of coin about me,” replied the Jew.
“Then you’ve got lots at home,” retorted Sikes, “and I must have some
from there.”
“Lots!” cried the Jew, holding up his hands. “I haven’t so much as
would——”
“I don’t know how much you’ve got, and I dare say you hardly know
yourself, as it would take a pretty long time to count it,” said Sikes;
“but I must have some to-night, and that’s flat.”
“Well, well,” said the Jew, with a sigh, “I’ll send the Artful round
presently.”
“You won’t do nothing of the kind,” rejoined Mr. Sikes. “The Artful’s
a deal too artful, and would forget to come, or lose his way, or get
dodged by traps and so be perwented, or any thing for an excuse, if you
put him up to it. Nancy shall go to the ken and fetch it, to make all
sure, and I’ll lie down and have a snooze while she’s gone.”
After a great deal of haggling and squabbling, the Jew beat down the
amount of the required advance from five pounds to three pounds four
and sixpence, protesting with many solemn asseverations that that would
only leave him eighteenpence to keep house with; Mr. Sikes sullenly
remarking that if he couldn’t get any more he must be content with
that, Nancy prepared to accompany him home; while the Dodger and Master
Bates put the eatables in the cupboard. The Jew then, taking leave of
his affectionate friend, returned homewards, attended by Nancy and the
boys, Mr. Sikes meanwhile flinging himself on the bed, and composing
himself to sleep away the time until the young lady’s return.
In due time they arrived at the Jew’s abode, where they found Toby
Crackit and Mr. Chitling intent upon their fifteenth game at cribbage,
which it is scarcely necessary to say the latter gentleman lost, and
with it his fifteenth and last sixpence, much to the amusement of his
young friends. Mr. Crackit, apparently somewhat ashamed at being found
relaxing himself with a gentleman so much his inferior in station and
mental endowments, yawned, and, inquiring after Sikes, took up his hat
to go.
“Has nobody been, Toby?” asked the Jew.
“Not a living leg,” answered Mr. Crackit, pulling up his collar: “it’s
been as dull as swipes. You ought to stand something handsome, Fagin,
to recompense me for keeping house so long. Damme, I’m as flat as a
jury-man, and should have gone to sleep as fast as Newgate, if I hadn’t
had the good natur’ to amuse this youngster. Horrid dull, I’m blessed
if I an’t.”
With these and other ejaculations of the same kind, Mr. Toby Crackit
swept up his winnings, and crammed them into his waistcoat pocket
with a haughty air, as though such small pieces of silver were wholly
beneath the consideration of a man of his figure, and swaggered out
of the room with so much elegance and gentility, that Mr. Chitling,
bestowing numerous admiring glances on his legs and boots till
they were out of sight, assured the company that he considered his
acquaintance cheap at fifteen sixpences an interview, and that he
didn’t value his losses the snap of a little finger.
