"I haven't much to tell, but must begin with a confession which I
have often longed but never dared to make before, because I am a
coward."
"Sho! who's goan to b'leeve that o' a man who fit like a wild cat,
wuz offered fer permotion on the field, and wuz reported tew
headquarters arfter his fust scrimmage. Try ag'in, Phil."
"Physical courage is as plentiful as brass buttons, nowadays, but
moral courage is a rarer virtue; and I'm lacking in it, as I'll
prove. You think me a Virginian; I'm an Alabamian by birth, and was
a reb three months ago."
This confession startled his hearers, as he knew it would, for he
had kept his secret well. Thorn laid his hand involuntarily upon his
rifle, Dick drew off a little, and Flint illustrated one of his own
expressions, for he "gawped." Phil laughed that musical laugh of
his, and looked up at them with his dark face waking into sudden
life as he went on:--
"There's no treason in the camp, for I'm as fierce a Federalist as
any of you now, and you may thank a woman for it. When Lee made his
raid into Pennsylvania, I was a lieutenant in the--well, never mind
what regiment, it hasn't signalized itself since, and I'd rather not
hit my old neighbors when they are down. In one of the skirmishes
during our retreat, I got a wound and was left for dead. A kind old
Quaker found and took me home; but though I was too weak to talk, I
had my senses by that time, and knew what went on about me.
Everything was in confusion, even in that well-ordered place; no
surgeon could be got at first, and a flock of frightened women
thee'd and thou'd one another over me, but hadn't wit enough to see
that I was bleeding to death. Among the faces that danced before my
dizzy eyes was one that seemed familiar, probably because no cap
surrounded it. I was glad to have it bending over me, to hear a
steady voice say, 'Give me a bandage, quick!' and when none was
instantly forthcoming to me, the young lady stripped up a little
white apron she wore, and stanched the wound in my shoulder. I was
not as badly hurt as I supposed, but so worn-out, and faint from
loss of blood, they believed me to be dying, and so did I, when the
old man took off his hat and said,--
"'Friend, if thee has anything to say, thee had better say it, for
thee probably has not long to live.'
"I thought of my little sister, far away in Alabama, fancied she
came to me, and muttered, 'Amy, kiss me, good-by.' The women sobbed
at that; but the girl bent her sweet compassionate face to mine, and
kissed me on the forehead. That was my wife."
"So you seceded from Secession right away, to pay for that
lip-service, hey?"
"No, Thorn, not right away,--to my shame be it spoken. I'll tell you
how it came about. Margaret was not old Bent's daughter, but a
Virginia girl on a visit, and a long one it proved, for she couldn't
go till things were quieter. While she waited, she helped take care
of me; for the good souls petted me like a baby when they found that
a Rebel could be a gentleman. I held my tongue, and behaved my best
to prove my gratitude, you know. Of course, I loved Margaret very
soon. How could I help it? She was the sweetest woman I had ever
seen, tender, frank, and spirited; all I had ever dreamed of and
longed for. I did not speak of this, nor hope for a return, because
I knew she was a hearty Unionist, and thought she only tended me
from pity. But suddenly she decided to go home, and when I ventured
to wish she would stay longer, she would not listen, and said, 'I
must not stay; I should have gone before.'"
