Mrs. Lynge: Well, what about Mrs. Bernick's brother?
Mrs. Rummel: Don't you know the dreadful scandal about him?
Mrs. Lynge: A dreadful scandal about Mr. Tonnesen?
Mrs. Rummel: Good Heavens, no. Mr. Tonnesen is her cousin, of course,
Mrs. Lynge. I am speaking of her brother--
Mrs. Holt: The wicked Mr. Tonnesen--
Mrs. Rummel: His name was Johan. He ran away to America.
Mrs. Holt: Had to run away, you must understand.
Mrs. Lynge: Then it is he the scandal is about?
Mrs. Rummel: Yes; there was something--how shall I put it?--there was
something of some kind between him and Dina's mother. I remember it all
as if it were yesterday. Johan Tonnesen was in old Mrs. Bernick's
office then; Karsten Bernick had just come back from Paris--he had not
yet become engaged--
Mrs. Lynge:  Yes, but what was the scandal?
Mrs. Rummel: Well, you must know that Moller's company were acting in
the town that winter--
Mrs. Holt: And Dorf, the actor, and his wife were in the company. All
the young men in the town were infatuated with her.
Mrs. Rummel: Yes, goodness knows how they could think her pretty. Well,
Dorf came home late one evening--
Mrs. Holt: Quite unexpectedly.
Mrs. Rummel: And found his-- No, really it isn't a thing one can talk
about.
Mrs. Holt: After all, Mrs. Rummel, he didn't find anything, because the
door was locked on the inside.
Mrs. Rummel: Yes, that is just what I was going to say--he found the
door locked. And--just think of it--the man that was in the house had
to jump out of the window.
Mrs. Holt: Right down from an attic window.
Mrs. Lynge: And that was Mrs. Bernick's brother?
Mrs. Rummel: Yes, it was he.
Mrs. Lynge: And that was why he ran away to America?
Mrs. Holt: Yes, he had to run away, you may be sure.
Mrs. Rummel: Because something was discovered afterwards that was
nearly as bad; just think--he had been making free with the cash-box...
Mrs. Holt:  But, you know, no one was certain of that, Mrs. Rummel;
perhaps there was no truth in the rumour.
Mrs. Rummel: Well, I must say--! Wasn't it known all over the town? Did
not old Mrs. Bernick nearly go bankrupt as the result of it?  However,
God forbid I should be the one to spread such reports.
Mrs. Holt:  Well, anyway, Mrs. Dorf didn't get the money, because she--
Mrs. Lynge:  Yes, what happened to Dina's parents afterwards?
Mrs. Rummel:  Well, Dorf deserted both his wife and his child. But
madam was impudent enough to stay here a whole year. Of course she had
not the face to appear at the theatre any more, but she kept herself by
taking in washing and sewing--
Mrs. Holt: And then she tried to set up a dancing school.
Mrs. Rummel: Naturally that was no good. What parents would trust their
children to such a woman? But it did not last very long. The fine madam
was not accustomed to work; she got something wrong with her lungs and
died of it.
