Mrs. Lynge:  Oh, you may be sure I shall be most careful. But that poor
child Dina Dorf! I am truly sorry for her.
Mrs. Rummel:  Well, really it was a stroke of good luck for her. Think
what it would have meant if she had been brought up by such parents! Of
course we did our best for her, every one of us, and gave her all the
good advice we could. Eventually Miss Bernick got her taken into this
house.
Mrs. Holt:  But she has always been a difficult child to deal with. It
is only natural--with all the bad examples she had had before her. A
girl of that sort is not like one of our own; one must be lenient with
her.
Mrs. Rummel:  Hush--here she comes. (In a louder voice.) Yes, Dina is
really a clever girl. Oh, is that you, Dina? We are just putting away
the things.
Mrs. Holt:  How delicious your coffee smells, my dear Dina. A nice cup
of coffee like that--
Mrs. Bernick (calling in from the verandah):  Will you come out here?
(Meanwhile MARTHA and DINA have helped the Maid to bring out the
coffee. All the ladies seat themselves on the verandah, and talk with a
great show of kindness to DINA. In a few moments DINA comes back into
the room and looks for her sewing.)
Mrs. Bernick (from the coffee table): Dina, won't you--?
Dina:  No, thank you. (Sits down to her sewing. MRS. BERNICK and
RORLUND exchange a few words; a moment afterwards he comes back into
the room, makes a pretext for going up to the table, and begins
speaking to DINA in low tones.)
Rorlund: Dina.
Dina:  Yes?
Rorlund:  Why don't you want to sit with the others?
Dina:  When I came in with the coffee, I could see from the strange
lady's face that they had been talking about me.
Rorlund:  But did you not see as well how agreeable she was to you out
there?
Dina:  That is just what I will not stand
Rorlund:  You are very self-willed, Dina.
Dina:  Yes.
Rorlund:  But why?
Dina:  Because it is my nature.
Rorlund:  Could you not try to alter your nature?
Dina:  No.
Rorlund:  Why not?
Dina (looking at him): Because I am one of the "poor fallen creatures",
you know.
Rorlund:  For shame, Dina.
Dina:  So was my mother.
Rorlund:  Who has spoken to you about such things?
Dina:  No one; they never do. Why don't they? They all handle me in
such a gingerly fashion, as if they thought I should go to pieces if
they---. Oh, how I hate all this kind-heartedness.
Rorlund:  My dear Dina, I can quite understand that you feel repressed
here, but--
Dina:  Yes; if only I could get right away from here. I could make my
own way quite well, if only I did not live amongst people who are
so--so--
Rorlund:  So what?
Dina:  So proper and so moral.
Rorlund:  Oh but, Dina, you don't mean that.
