Our statesmen sell themselves and their country for gold.  Our municipal
servants and state legislators commit countless treasons.  The world of
graft!  The world of betrayal!  The world of somnambulism, whose exalted
and sensitive citizens are outraged by the knockouts of the prize-ring,
and who annually not merely knock out, but kill, thousands of babies and
children by means of child labour and adulterated food.  Far better to
have the front of one's face pushed in by the fist of an honest
prize-fighter than to have the lining of one's stomach corroded by the
embalmed beef of a dishonest manufacturer.
In a prize-fight men are classed.  A lightweight fights with a
light-weight; he never fights with a heavy-weight, and foul blows are not
allowed.  Yet in the world of the somnambulists, where soar the
sublimated spirits, there are no classes, and foul blows are continually
struck and never disallowed.  Only they are not called foul blows.  The
world of claw and fang and fist and club has passed away--so say the
somnambulists.  A rebate is not an elongated claw.  A Wall Street raid is
not a fang slash.  Dummy boards of directors and fake accountings are not
foul blows of the fist under the belt.  A present of coal stock by a mine
operator to a railroad official is not a claw rip to the bowels of a
rival mine operator.  The hundred million dollars with which a
combination beats down to his knees a man with a million dollars is not a
club.  The man who walks in his sleep says it is not a club.  So say all
of his kind with which he herds.  They gather together and solemnly and
gloatingly make and repeat certain noises that sound like "discretion,"
"acumen," "initiative," "enterprise."  These noises are especially
gratifying when they are made backward.  They mean the same things, but
they sound different.  And in either case, forward or backward, the
spirit of the dream is not disturbed.
When a man strikes a foul blow in the prize-ring the fight is immediately
stopped, he is declared the loser, and he is hissed by the audience as he
leaves the ring.  But when a man who walks in his sleep strikes a foul
blow he is immediately declared the victor and awarded the prize; and
amid acclamations he forthwith turns his prize into a seat in the United
States Senate, into a grotesque palace on Fifth Avenue, and into endowed
churches, universities and libraries, to say nothing of subsidized
newspapers, to proclaim his greatness.
The red animal in the somnambulist will out.  He decries the carnal
combat of the prize-ring, and compels the red animal to spiritual combat.
The poisoned lie, the nasty, gossiping tongue, the brutality of the
unkind epigram, the business and social nastiness and treachery of
to-day--these are the thrusts and scratches of the red animal when the
somnambulist is in charge.  They are not the upper cuts and short arm
jabs and jolts and slugging blows of the spirit.  They are the foul blows
of the spirit that have never been disbarred, as the foul blows of the
prize-ring have been disbarred.  (Would it not be preferable for a man to
strike one full on the mouth with his fist than for him to tell a lie
about one, or malign those that are nearest and dearest?)
