    "I have spoken.  I have invited you, and nine of your
    fellow-captains, to confer with me.  On March third the yacht
    _Energon_ will sail from San Francisco.  You are requested to be on
    board the night before.  This is serious.  The affairs of the world
    must be handled for a time by a strong hand.  Mine is that strong
    hand.  If you fail to obey my summons, you will die.  Candidly, I do
    not expect that you will obey.  But your death for failure to obey
    will cause obedience on the part of those I subsequently summon.  You
    will have served a purpose.  And please remember that I have no
    unscientific sentimentality about the value of human life.  I carry
    always in the background of my consciousness the innumerable billions
    of lives that are to laugh and be happy in future aeons on the earth.
    "Yours for the reconstruction of society,
                                                                 "GOLIAH."
The publication of this letter did not cause even local amusement.  Men
might have smiled to themselves as they read it, but it was so palpably
the handiwork of a crank that it did not merit discussion.  Interest did
not arouse till next morning.  An Associated Press despatch to the
Eastern states, followed by interviews by eager-nosed reporters, had
brought out the names of the other nine captains of industry who had
received similar letters, but who had not thought the matter of
sufficient importance to be made public.  But the interest aroused was
mild, and it would have died out quickly had not Gabberton cartooned a
chronic presidential aspirant as "Goliah."  Then came the song that was
sung hilariously from sea to sea, with the refrain, "Goliah will catch
you if you don't watch out."
The weeks passed and the incident was forgotten.  Walter Bassett had
forgotten it likewise; but on the evening of February 22, he was called
to the telephone by the Collector of the Port.  "I just wanted to tell
you," said the latter, "that the yacht _Energon_ has arrived and gone to
anchor in the stream off Pier Seven."
What happened that night Walter Bassett has never divulged.  But it is
known that he rode down in his auto to the water front, chartered one of
Crowley's launches, and was put aboard the strange yacht.  It is further
known that when he returned to the shore, three hours later, he
immediately despatched a sheaf of telegrams to his nine fellow-captains
of industry who had received letters from Goliah.  These telegrams were
similarly worded, and read: "The yacht _Energon_ has arrived.  There is
something in this.  I advise you to come."
Bassett was laughed at for his pains.  It was a huge laugh that went up
(for his telegrams had been made public), and the popular song on Goliah
revived and became more popular than ever.  Goliah and Bassett were
cartooned and lampooned unmercifully, the former, as the Old Man of the
Sea, riding on the latter's neck.  The laugh tittered and rippled through
clubs and social circles, was restrainedly merry in the editorial
columns, and broke out in loud guffaws in the comic weeklies.  There was
a serious side as well, and Bassett's sanity was gravely questioned by
many, and especially by his business associates.
