But intrude not violently upon man, leave him alone in his somnambulism,
and he kicks out from under his feet the ladder of life up which he has
climbed, constitutes himself the centre of the universe, dreams sordidly
about his own particular god, and maunders metaphysically about his own
blessed immortality.
True, he lives in a real world, breathes real air, eats real food, and
sleeps under real blankets, in order to keep real cold away.  And there's
the rub.  He has to effect adjustments with the real world and at the
same time maintain the sublimity of his dream.  The result of this
admixture of the real and the unreal is confusion thrice confounded.  The
man that walks the real world in his sleep becomes such a tangled mass of
contradictions, paradoxes, and lies that he has to lie to himself in
order to stay asleep.
In passing, it may be noted that some men are remarkably constituted in
this matter of self-deception.  They excel at deceiving themselves.  They
believe, and they help others to believe.  It becomes their function in
society, and some of them are paid large salaries for helping their
fellow-men to believe, for instance, that they are not as other animals;
for helping the king to believe, and his parasites and drudges as well,
that he is God's own manager over so many square miles of earth-crust;
for helping the merchant and banking classes to believe that society
rests on their shoulders, and that civilization would go to smash if they
got out from under and ceased from their exploitations and petty
pilferings.
Prize-fighting is terrible.  This is the dictum of the man who walks in
his sleep.  He prates about it, and writes to the papers about it, and
worries the legislators about it.  There is nothing of the brute about
_him_.  He is a sublimated soul that treads the heights and breathes
refined ether--in self-comparison with the prize-fighter.  The man who
walks in his sleep ignores the flesh and all its wonderful play of
muscle, joint, and nerve.  He feels that there is something godlike in
the mysterious deeps of his being, denies his relationship with the
brute, and proceeds to go forth into the world and express by deeds that
something godlike within him.
He sits at a desk and chases dollars through the weeks and months and
years of his life.  To him the life godlike resolves into a problem
something like this: _Since the great mass of men toil at producing
wealth_, _how best can he get between the great mass of men and the
wealth they produce_, _and get a slice for himself_?  With tremendous
exercise of craft, deceit, and guile, he devotes his life godlike to this
purpose.  As he succeeds, his somnambulism grows profound.  He bribes
legislatures, buys judges, "controls" primaries, and then goes and hires
other men to tell him that it is all glorious and right.  And the
funniest thing about it is that this arch-deceiver believes all that they
tell him.  He reads only the newspapers and magazines that tell him what
he wants to be told, listens only to the biologists who tell him that he
is the finest product of the struggle for existence, and herds only with
his own kind, where, like the monkey-folk, they teeter up and down and
tell one another how great they are.
