   Keep. I will my Lord, God giue your Grace good rest.
Enter Brakenbury the Lieutenant.
  Bra. Sorrow breakes Seasons, and reposing houres,
Makes the Night Morning, and the Noon-tide night:
Princes haue but their Titles for their Glories,
An outward Honor, for an inward Toyle,
And for vnfelt Imaginations
They often feele a world of restlesse Cares:
So that betweene their Titles, and low Name,
There's nothing differs, but the outward fame.
Enter two Murtherers.
  1.Mur. Ho, who's heere?
  Bra. What would'st thou Fellow? And how camm'st
thou hither
   2.Mur. I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither
on my Legges
   Bra. What so breefe?
  1. 'Tis better (Sir) then to be tedious:
Let him see our Commission, and talke no more.
Reads
  Bra. I am in this, commanded to deliuer
The Noble Duke of Clarence to your hands.
I will not reason what is meant heereby,
Because I will be guiltlesse from the meaning.
There lies the Duke asleepe, and there the Keyes.
Ile to the King, and signifie to him,
That thus I haue resign'd to you my charge.
Enter.
  1 You may sir, 'tis a point of wisedome:
Far you well
   2 What, shall we stab him as he sleepes
   1 No: hee'l say 'twas done cowardly, when he wakes
  2 Why he shall neuer wake, vntill the great Iudgement
day
   1 Why then hee'l say, we stab'd him sleeping
   2 The vrging of that word Iudgement, hath bred a
kinde of remorse in me
   1 What? art thou affraid?
  2 Not to kill him, hauing a Warrant,
But to be damn'd for killing him, from the which
No Warrant can defend me
   1 I thought thou had'st bin resolute
   2 So I am, to let him liue
   1 Ile backe to the Duke of Glouster, and tell him so
   2 Nay, I prythee stay a little:
I hope this passionate humor of mine, will change,
It was wont to hold me but while one tels twenty
   1 How do'st thou feele thy selfe now?
  2 Some certaine dregges of conscience are yet within
mee
   1 Remember our Reward, when the deed's done
   2 Come, he dies: I had forgot the Reward
   1 Where's thy conscience now
   2 O, in the Duke of Glousters purse
   1 When hee opens his purse to giue vs our Reward,
thy Conscience flyes out
   2 'Tis no matter, let it goe: There's few or none will
entertaine it
   1 What if it come to thee againe?
  2 Ile not meddle with it, it makes a man a Coward:
A man cannot steale, but it accuseth him: A man cannot
Sweare, but it Checkes him: A man cannot lye with his
Neighbours Wife, but it detects him. 'Tis a blushing
shamefac'd spirit, that mutinies in a mans bosome: It
filles a man full of Obstacles. It made me once restore a
Pursse of Gold that (by chance) I found: It beggars any
man that keepes it: It is turn'd out of Townes and Citties
for a dangerous thing, and euery man that means to
liue well, endeuours to trust to himselfe, and liue without
it
