   Rich. Fairer then tongue can name thee, let me haue
Some patient leysure to excuse my selfe
   An. Fouler then heart can thinke thee,
Thou can'st make no excuse currant,
But to hang thy selfe
   Rich. By such dispaire, I should accuse my selfe
   An. And by dispairing shalt thou stand excused,
For doing worthy Vengeance on thy selfe,
That did'st vnworthy slaughter vpon others
   Rich. Say that I slew them not
   An. Then say they were not slaine:
But dead they are, and diuellish slaue by thee
   Rich. I did not kill your Husband
   An. Why then he is aliue
   Rich. Nay, he is dead, and slaine by Edwards hands
   An. In thy foule throat thou Ly'st,
Queene Margaret saw
Thy murd'rous Faulchion smoaking in his blood:
The which, thou once didd'st bend against her brest,
But that thy Brothers beate aside the point
   Rich. I was prouoked by her sland'rous tongue,
That laid their guilt, vpon my guiltlesse Shoulders
   An. Thou was't prouoked by thy bloody minde,
That neuer dream'st on ought but Butcheries:
Did'st thou not kill this King?
  Rich. I graunt ye
   An. Do'st grant me Hedge-hogge,
Then God graunt me too
Thou may'st be damned for that wicked deede,
O he was gentle, milde, and vertuous
   Rich. The better for the King of heauen that hath him
   An. He is in heauen, where thou shalt neuer come
   Rich. Let him thanke me, that holpe to send him thither:
For he was fitter for that place then earth
   An. And thou vnfit for any place, but hell
   Rich. Yes one place else, if you will heare me name it
   An. Some dungeon
   Rich. Your Bed-chamber
   An. Ill rest betide the chamber where thou lyest
   Rich. So will it Madam, till I lye with you
   An. I hope so
   Rich. I know so. But gentle Lady Anne,
To leaue this keene encounter of our wittes,
And fall something into a slower method.
Is not the causer of the timelesse deaths
Of these Plantagenets, Henrie and Edward,
As blamefull as the Executioner
   An. Thou was't the cause, and most accurst effect
   Rich. Your beauty was the cause of that effect:
Your beauty, that did haunt me in my sleepe,
To vndertake the death of all the world,
So I might liue one houre in your sweet bosome
   An. If I thought that, I tell thee Homicide,
These Nailes should rent that beauty from my Cheekes
   Rich. These eyes could not endure y beauties wrack,
You should not blemish it, if I stood by;
As all the world is cheared by the Sunne,
So I by that: It is my day, my life
   An. Blacke night ore-shade thy day, & death thy life
   Rich. Curse not thy selfe faire Creature,
Thou art both
   An. I would I were, to be reueng'd on thee
   Rich. It is a quarrell most vnnaturall,
To be reueng'd on him that loueth thee
   An. It is a quarrell iust and reasonable,
To be reueng'd on him that kill'd my Husband
