"Well, well; a Florentine doesn't mind bidding a fair price for news: it
stays the stomach a little though he may win no hose by it.  If I take
you to the prettiest damsel in the Mercato to get a cup of milk--that
will be a fair bargain."
"Nay; I can find her myself, if she be really in the Mercato; for pretty
heads are apt to look forth of doors and windows.  No, no.  Besides, a
sharp trader, like you, ought to know that he who bids for nuts and
news, may chance to find them hollow."
"Ah! young man," said Bratti, with a sideway glance of some admiration,
"you were not born of a Sunday--the salt-shops were open when you came
into the world.  You're not a Hebrew, eh?--come from Spain or Naples,
eh?  Let me tell you the Frati Minori are trying to make Florence as hot
as Spain for those dogs of hell that want to get all the profit of usury
to themselves and leave none for Christians; and when you walk the
Calimara with a piece of yellow cloth in your cap, it will spoil your
beauty more than a sword-cut across that smooth olive cheek of
yours.--_Abbaratta, baratta_--_chi abbaratta_?--I tell you, young man,
grey cloth is against yellow cloth; and there's as much grey cloth in
Florence as would make a gown and cowl for the Duomo, and there's not so
much yellow cloth as would make hose for Saint Christopher--blessed be
his name, and send me a sight of him this day!--_Abbaratta, baratta,
b'ratta_--_chi abbaratta_?"
"All that is very amusing information you are parting with for nothing,"
said the stranger, rather scornfully; "but it happens not to concern me.
I am no Hebrew."
"See, now!" said Bratti, triumphantly; "I've made a good bargain with
mere words.  I've made you tell me something, young man, though you're
as hard to hold as a lamprey.  San Giovanni be praised! a blind
Florentine is a match for two one-eyed men.  But here we are in the
Mercato."
They had now emerged from the narrow streets into a broad piazza, known
to the elder Florentine writers as the Mercato Vecchio, or the Old
Market.  This piazza, though it had been the scene of a provision-market
from time immemorial, and may, perhaps, says fond imagination, be the
very spot to which the Fesulean ancestors of the Florentines descended
from their high fastness to traffic with the rustic population of the
valley, had not been shunned as a place of residence by Florentine
wealth.  In the early decades of the fifteenth century, which was now
near its end, the Medici and other powerful families of the _popolani
grassi_, or commercial nobility, had their houses there, not perhaps
finding their ears much offended by the loud roar of mingled dialects,
or their eyes much shocked by the butchers' stalls, which the old poet
Antonio Pucci accounts a chief glory, or _dignita_, of a market that, in
his esteem, eclipsed the markets of all the earth beside.  But the glory
of mutton and veal (well attested to be the flesh of the right animals;
for were not the skins, with the heads attached, duly displayed,
according to the decree of the Signoria?) was just now wanting to the
Mercato, the time of Lent not being yet over.  The proud corporation, or
"Art," of butchers was in abeyance, and it was the great harvest-time of
the market-gardeners, the cheesemongers, the vendors of macaroni, corn,
eggs, milk, and dried fruits: a change which was apt to make the women's
voices predominant in the chorus.  But in all seasons there was the
experimental ringing of pots and pans, the chinking of the
money-changers, the tempting offers of cheapness at the old-clothes
stalls, the challenges of the dicers, the vaunting of new linens and
woollens, of excellent wooden-ware, kettles, and frying-pans; there was
the choking of the narrow inlets with mules and carts, together with
much uncomplimentary remonstrance in terms remarkably identical with the
insults in use by the gentler sex of the present day, under the same
imbrowning and heating circumstances.  Ladies and gentlemen, who came to
market, looked on at a larger amount of amateur fighting than could
easily be seen in these later times, and beheld more revolting rags,
beggary, and rascaldom, than modern householders could well picture to
themselves.  As the day wore on, the hideous drama of the gaming-house
might be seen here by any chance open-air spectator--the quivering
eagerness, the blank despair, the sobs, the blasphemy, and the blows:--
