"Forgive me, pretty one, for awaking you.  I'm dying with hunger, and
the scent of milk makes breakfast seem more desirable than ever."
He had chosen the words "_muoio di fame_" because he knew they would be
familiar to her ears; and he had uttered them playfully, with the
intonation of a mendicant.  This time he was understood; the corner of
the mantle was dropped, and in a few moments a large cup of fragrant
milk was held out to him.  He paid no further compliments before raising
it to his lips, and while he was drinking, the little maiden found
courage to look up at the long dark curls of this singular-voiced
stranger, who had asked for food in the tones of a beggar, but who,
though his clothes were much damaged, was unlike any beggar she had ever
seen.
While this process of survey was going on, there was another current of
feeling that carried her hand into a bag which hung by the side of the
mule, and when the stranger set down his cup, he saw a large piece of
bread held out towards him, and caught a glance of the blue eyes that
seemed intended as an encouragement to him to take this additional gift.
"But perhaps that is your own breakfast," he said.  "No, I have had
enough without payment.  A thousand thanks, my gentle one."
There was no rejoinder in words; but the piece of bread was pushed a
little nearer to him, as if in impatience at his refusal; and as the
long dark eyes of the stranger rested on the baby-face, it seemed to be
gathering more and more courage to look up and meet them.
"Ah, then, if I must take the bread," he said, laying his hand on it, "I
shall get bolder still, and beg for another kiss to make the bread
sweeter."
His speech was getting wonderfully intelligible in spite of the strange
voice, which had at first almost seemed a thing to make her cross
herself.  She blushed deeply, and lifted up a corner of her mantle to
her mouth again.  But just as the too presumptuous stranger was leaning
forward, and had his fingers on the arm that held up the screening
mantle, he was startled by a harsh voice close upon his ear.
"Who are _you_--with a murrain to you?  No honest buyer, I'll warrant,
but a hanger-on of the dicers--or something worse.  Go! dance off, and
find fitter company, or I'll give you a tune to a little quicker time
than you'll like."
The young stranger drew back and looked at the speaker with a glance
provokingly free from alarm and deprecation, and his slight expression
of saucy amusement broke into a broad beaming smile as he surveyed the
figure of his threatenor.  She was a stout but brawny woman, with a
man's jerkin slipped over her green serge gamurra or gown, and the
peaked hood of some departed mantle fastened round her sunburnt face,
which, under all its coarseness and premature wrinkles, showed a
half-sad, half-ludicrous maternal resemblance to the tender baby-face of
the little maiden--the sort of resemblance which often seems a more
croaking, shudder-creating prophecy than that of the death's-head.
