"That's all very well for _him_, because _he_ doesn't care for
society, and may as well be studying medicine as philandering about
the woods with his pockets full of musty philosophers and
old-fashioned poets," answered Charlie, with a shrug which plainly
expressed his opinion of Mac.
"I wonder if musty philosophers, like Socrates and Aristotle, and
old-fashioned poets, like Shakspeare and Milton, are not safer company
for him to keep than some of the more modern friends you have?" said
Rose, remembering Jamie's hints about wild oats; for she could be a
little sharp sometimes, and had not lectured "the boys" for so long it
seemed unusually pleasant.
But Charlie changed the subject skilfully by exclaiming with an
anxious expression,--
"I do believe you are going to be like Aunt Jane; for that's just the
way she comes down on me whenever she gets a chance! Don't take her
for a model, I beg: she is a good woman, but a mighty disagreeable
one, in my humble opinion."
The fear of being disagreeable is a great bugbear to a girl, as this
artful young man well knew, and Rose fell into the trap at once; for
Aunt Jane was far from being her model, though she could not help
respecting her worth.
"Have you given up your painting?" she asked rather abruptly, turning
to a gilded Fra Angelico angel which leaned in the sofa corner.
"Sweetest face I ever saw, and very like you about the eyes, isn't
it?" said Charlie, who seemed to have a Yankee trick of replying to
one question with another.
"I want an answer, not a compliment," and Rose tried to look severe,
as she put away the picture more quickly than she took it up.
"Have I given up painting? Oh, no! I daub a little in oils, slop a
little in water-colors, sketch now and then, and poke about the
studios when the artistic fit comes on."
"How is the music?"
"More flourishing. I don't practise much, but sing a good deal in
company. Set up a guitar last summer, and went troubadouring round in
great style. The girls like it, and it's jolly among the fellows."
"Are you studying any thing?"
"Well, I have some law books on my table,--good, big, wise-looking
chaps,--and I take a turn at them semi-occasionally, when pleasure
palls or parents chide. But I doubt if I do more than learn what 'a
allybi' is this year," and a sly laugh in Charlie's eye suggested that
he sometimes availed himself of this bit of legal knowledge.
"What _do_ you do then?"
"Fair catechist, I enjoy myself. Private theatricals have been the
rage of late, and I have won such laurels that I seriously think of
adopting the stage as my profession."
"Really!" cried Rose, alarmed.
"Why not? if I _must_ go to work, isn't that as good as any thing?"
"Not without more talent than I think you possess. With genius one can
do any thing: without it one had better let the stage alone."
