"No, ma'am! Why, don't you know? I'm captain of the Base Ball Star
Club. Look at that, will you?" And, as if the fact were one of national
importance, Jamie flung open his jacket to display upon his proudly
swelling chest an heart-shaped red flannel shield decorated with a white
cotton star the size of a tea plate.
"Superb! I've been away so long I forgot there was such a game. And you
the captain?" cried Rose, deeply impressed by the high honor to which
her kinsman had arrived.
"I just am, and it's no joke you'd better believe, for we knock our
teeth out, black our eyes, and split our fingers almost as well as the
big fellows. You come down to the Common between one and two and see us
play a match, then you'll understand what hard work it is. I'll teach
you to bat now if you'll come out on the lawn," added Jamie, fired with
a wish to exhibit his prowess.
"No, thank you, captain. The grass is wet, and you'll be late at school
if you stay for us."
"I'm not afraid. Girls are not good for much generally, but you never
used to mind a little wet and played cricket like a good one. Can't you
ever do that sort of thing now?" asked the boy, with a pitying look
at these hapless creatures debarred from the joys and perils of manly
sports.
"I can run still and I'll get to the gate before you, see if I don't."
And, yielding to the impulse of the moment, Rose darted down the steps
before astonished Jamie could mount and follow.
He was off in a moment, but Rose had the start, and though old Sheltie
did his best, she reached the goal just ahead, and stood there laughing
and panting, all rosy with fresh October air, a pretty picture for
several gentlemen who were driving by.
"Good for you, Rose!" said Archie, jumping out to shake hands while Will
and Geordie saluted and Uncle Mac laughed at Jamie, who looked as if
girls had risen slightly in his opinion.
"I'm glad it is you, because you won't be shocked. But I'm so happy to
be back I forgot I was not little Rose still," said Atalanta, smoothing
down her flying hair.
"You look very like her, with the curls on your shoulders in the old
way. I missed them last night and wondered what it was. How are Uncle
and Phebe?" asked Archie, whose eyes had been looking over Rose's head
while he spoke toward the piazza, where a female figure was visible
among the reddening woodbines.
"All well, thanks. Won't you come up and see for yourselves?"
"Can't, my dear, can't possibly. Business, you know, business. This
fellow is my right-hand man, and I can't spare him a minute. Come, Arch,
we must be off, or these boys will miss their train," answered Uncle
Mac, pulling out his watch.
With a last look from the light-haired figure at the gate to the
dark-haired one among the vines, Archie drove away and Jamie cantered
after, consoling himself for his defeat with apple number two.
