"Take a little time to look about you and get your bearings, child. The
world you have been living in is a much simpler, honester one than that
you are now to enter. Test yourself a bit and see if the old ways seem
best after all, for you are old enough to decide, and wise enough to
discover, what is for your truest good, I hope," he said, trying to feel
ready to let the bird escape from under his wing and make little flights
alone.
"Now, Uncle, I'm very much afraid you are going to be disappointed in
me," answered Rose with unusual hesitation yet a very strong desire
visible in her eyes. "You like to have me quite honest, and I've learned
to tell you all my foolish thoughts so I'll speak out, and if you find
my wish very wrong and silly, please say so, for I don't want you to
cast me off entirely, though I am grown up. You say, wait a little, test
myself, and try if the old ways are best. I should like to do that, and
can I in a better way than leading the life other girls lead? Just for a
little while," she added, as her uncle's face grew grave.
He was disappointed, yet acknowledged that the desire was natural and
in a moment saw that a trial of this sort might have its advantages.
Nevertheless, he dreaded it, for he had intended to choose her society
carefully and try to keep her unspoiled by the world as long as
possible, like many another fond parent and guardian. But the spirit of
Eve is strong in all her daughters forbidden fruit will look rosier to
them than any in their own orchards, and the temptation to take just one
little bite proves irresistible to the wisest. So Rose, looking out from
the safe seclusion of her girlhood into the woman's kingdom which she
was about to take possession of, felt a sudden wish to try its pleasures
before assuming its responsibilities, and was too sincere to hide the
longing.
"Very well, my dear, try it if you like, only take care of your health
be temperate in your gaiety and don't lose more than you gain, if that
is possible," he added under his breath, endeavoring to speak cheerfully
and not look anxious.
"I know it is foolish, but I do want to be a regular butterfly for a
little while and see what it is like. You know I couldn't help seeing a
good deal of fashionable life abroad, though we were not in it, and here
at home the girls tell me about all sorts of pleasant things that are to
happen this winter, so if you won't despise me very much, I should like
to try it."
"For how long?"
"Would three months be too long? New Year is a good time to take a fresh
start. Everyone is going to welcome me, so I must be gay in spite of
myself, unless I'm willing to seem very ungrateful and morose," said
Rose, glad to have so good a reason to offer for her new experiment.
