"That we might have the pleasure of coming back again," answered
Phebe, walking down the hall beside her little mistress, as happy as
she.
"Every thing seems just as we left it, even to the rose-leaves we used
to tuck in here," continued the younger girl, peeping into one of the
tall India jars that stood about the hall.
"Don't you remember how Jamie and Pokey used to play Forty Thieves
with them, and how you tried to get into that blue one and got stuck,
and the other boys found us before I could pull you out?" asked Phebe,
laughing.
"Yes, indeed; and speaking of angels one is apt to hear the rustling
of their wings," added Rose, as a shrill whistle came up the avenue,
accompanied by the clatter of hoofs.
"It is the circus!" cried Phebe, gaily, as they both recalled the red
cart and the charge of the Clan.
There was only one boy now, alas! but he made noise enough for half a
dozen; and, before Rose could run to the door, Jamie came bouncing in
with a "shining morning face," a bat over his shoulder, a red and
white jockey cap on his head, one pocket bulging with a big ball, the
other overflowing with cookies, and his mouth full of the apple he was
just finishing off in hot haste.
"Morning! I just looked in to make sure you'd really come, and see
that you were all right," he observed, saluting with the bat and
doffing the gay cap with one effective twitch.
"Good-morning, dear. Yes, we are really here, and getting to rights as
fast as possible. But it seems to me you are rather gorgeous, Jamie.
What do you belong to,--a fire company or a jockey club?" asked Rose,
turning up the once chubby face, which now was getting brown, and
square about the chin.
"No, _ma'am_! Why, don't you know? I'm captain of the Base Ball Star
Club. Look at that, will you?" and, as if the fact was one of national
importance, Jamie flung open his jacket to display upon his proudly
swelling chest a heart-shaped red-flannel shield, decorated with a
white cotton star the size of a tea-plate.
"Superb! I've been away so long I forgot there was such a game. And
_you_ are the captain?" cried Rose, deeply impressed by the high honor
to which her kinsman had arrived.
"I just am, and it's no joke you'd better believe; for we knock our
teeth out, black our eyes, and split our fingers almost as well as the
big fellows. You come down to the Common between one and two and see
us play a match; then you'll understand what hard work it is. I'll
teach you to bat now if you'll come out on the lawn," added Jamie,
fired with a wish to exhibit his prowess.
"No, thank you, captain. The grass is wet, and you'll be late at
school if you stay for us."
"I'm not afraid. Girls are not good for much generally; but you never
used to mind a little wet, and played cricket like a good one. Can't
you ever do that sort of thing now?" asked the boy, with a pitying
look at these hapless creatures, debarred from the joys and perils of
manly sports.
