"There's a quencher for the 'star of the goodlie companie' to which I
belong. Mac hasn't a ray of genius for any thing, yet you admire him
for trying to be an M.D.," cried Charlie, rather nettled by her words.
"It is respectable, at all events; and I'd rather be a second-rate
doctor than a second-rate actor. But I know you don't mean it, and
only say so to frighten me."
"Exactly. I always bring it up when any one begins to lecture, and it
works wonders. Uncle Mac turns pale, the aunts hold up their hands in
holy horror, and a general panic ensues. Then I magnanimously promise
not to disgrace the family; and in the first burst of gratitude the
dear souls agree to every thing I ask; so peace is restored, and I go
on my way rejoicing."
"Just the way you used to threaten to run off to sea, if your mother
objected to any of your whims. You are not changed in that respect,
though you are in others. You had great plans and projects once,
Charlie; and now you seem to be contented with being a 'jack of all
trades and master of none.'"
"Boyish nonsense! Time has brought wisdom; and I don't see the sense
of tying myself down to one particular thing, and grinding away at it
year after year. People of one idea get so deucedly narrow and tame,
I've no patience with them. Culture is the thing; and the sort one
gets by ranging over a wide field is the easiest to acquire, the
handiest to have, and the most successful in the end. At any rate, it
is the kind I like, and the only kind I intend to bother myself
about."
With this declaration, Charlie smoothed his brow, clasped his hands
over his head, and, leaning back, gently warbled the chorus of a
college song, as if it expressed his views of life better than he
could:--
    "While our rosy fillets shed
    Blushes o'er each fervid head,
    With many a cup and many a smile
    The festal moments we beguile."
"Some of my saints here were people of one idea; and, though they were
not very successful in a worldly point of view while alive, they were
loved and canonized when dead," said Rose, who had been turning over a
pile of photographs upon the table, and, just then, found her
favorite, St. Francis, among them.
"This is more to my taste. Those worn-out, cadaverous fellows give me
the blues; but here's a gentlemanly saint, who takes things easy, and
does good as he goes along, without howling over his own sins, or
making other people miserable by telling them of theirs." And Charlie
laid a handsome St. Martin beside the brown-frocked monk.
Rose looked at both, and understood why her cousin preferred the
soldierly figure with the sword to the ascetic with his crucifix. One
was riding bravely through the world in purple and fine linen, with
horse and hound, and squires at his back; the other was in a
lazar-house, praying over the dead and dying. The contrast was a
strong one; and the girl's eyes lingered longest on the knight, though
she said thoughtfully,--
