But Rose was not appeased, and gave a disdainful shrug as she answered
with a look in her eyes that his lordship did not like, "Thank you. I
don't want admirers or slaves, but friends and helpers. I've lived so
long with a wise, good man that I am rather hard to suit, perhaps, but
I don't intend to lower my standard, and anyone who cares for my regard
must at least try to live up to it."
"Whew! Here's a wrathful dove! Come and smooth her ruffled plumage, Mac.
I'll dodge before I do further mischief," and Charlie strolled away into
the other room, privately lamenting that Uncle Alec had spoiled a fine
girl by making her strong-minded.
He wished himself back again in five minutes, for Mac said something
that produced a gale of laughter, and when he took a look over his
shoulder the "wrathful dove" was cooing so peacefully and pleasantly
he was sorely tempted to return and share the fun. But Charlie had been
spoiled by too much indulgence, and it was hard for him to own himself
in the wrong even when he knew it. He always got what he wanted sooner
or later, and having long ago made up his mind that Rose and her fortune
were to be his, he was secretly displeased at the new plans and beliefs
of the young lady, but flattered himself that they would soon be changed
when she saw how unfashionable and inconvenient they were.
Musing over the delightful future he had laid out, he made himself
comfortable in the sofa corner near his mother till the appearance of
a slight refection caused both groups to melt into one. Aunt Plenty
believed in eating and drinking, so the slightest excuse for festivity
delighted her hospitable soul, and on this joyful occasion she surpassed
herself.
It was during this informal banquet that Rose, roaming about from one
admiring relative to another, came upon the three younger lads, who were
having a quiet little scuffle in a secluded corner.
"Come out here and let me have a look at you," she said enticingly, for
she predicted an explosion and public disgrace if peace was not speedily
restored.
Hastily smoothing themselves down, the young gentlemen presented three
flushed and merry countenances for inspection, feeling highly honored by
the command.
"Dear me, how you two have grown! You big things how dare you get head
of me in this way!" she said, standing on tiptoe to pat the curly pates
before her, for Will and Geordie had shot up like weeds, and now grinned
cheerfully down upon her as she surveyed them in comic amazement.
"The Campbells are all fine, tall fellows, and we mean to be the best of
the lot. Shouldn't wonder if we were six-footers like Grandpa," observed
Will proudly, looking so like a young Shanghai rooster, all legs and an
insignificant head, that Rose kept her countenance with difficulty.
"We shall broaden out when we get our growth. We are taller than Steve
now, a half a head, both of us," added Geordie, with his nose in the
air.
