Kroll. An apostate. Every word you say bears witness to that. But, for
all that, why have you made this confession of your secret apostasy? Or
why just at the present moment?
Rosmer. You yourself have compelled me to it, Kroll.
Kroll. I? I have compelled you?
Rosmer. When I heard of your violent behaviour at public meetings--when
I read the reports of all the vehement speeches you made there of all
your bitter attacks upon those that were on the other side--your
scornful censure of your opponents--oh, Kroll, to think that
you--you--could be the man to do that!--then my eyes were opened to my
imperative duty. Mankind is suffering from the strife that is going on
now, and we ought to bring peace and happiness and a spirit of
reconciliation into their souls. That is why I step forward now and
confess myself openly for what I am--and, besides, I want to put my
powers to the test, as well as others. Could not you--from your
side--go with me in that, Kroll?
Kroll. Never, as long as I live, will I make any alliance with the
forces of disorder in the community.
Rosmer. Well, let us at least fight with honourable weapons, since it
seems we must fight.
Kroll. I can have nothing more to do with any one who does not think
with me on matters of vital importance, and I owe such a man no
consideration.
Rosmer. Does that apply even to me?
Kroll. You yourself have broken with me, Rosmer.
Rosmer. But does this really mean a breach between us?
Kroll. Between us! It is a breach with all those who have hitherto
stood shoulder to shoulder with you. And now you must take the
consequences.
(REBECCA comes in from the room on the right and opens the door wide.)
Rebecca. Well, that is done! We have started him off on the road to his
great sacrifice, and now we can go in to supper. Will you come in, Mr.
Kroll?
Kroll (taking his hat). Good-night, Miss West. This is no longer any
place for me.
Rebecca (excitedly). What do you mean? (Shuts the door and comes nearer
to the two men.) Have you told him--?
Rosmer. He knows now.
Kroll. We shall not let you slip out of our hands, Rosmer. We shall
compel you to come back to us again.
Rosmer. I shall never find myself there any more.
Kroll. We shall see. You are not the man to endure standing alone.
Rosmer. I am not so entirely alone, even now. There are two of us to
bear the solitude together here.
Kroll. Ah! (A suspicion appears to cross his mind.) That too! Beata's
words!
Rosmer. Beata's?
Kroll (dismissing the thought from his mind). No, no--that was odious
of me. Forgive me.
Rosmer. What? What do you mean?
Kroll. Think no more about it. I am ashamed of it. Forgive me--and
good-bye. (Goes out by the door to the hall.)
Rosmer (following him). Kroll! We cannot end everything between us like
this. I will come and see you to-morrow.
