Rosmer. Are you in earnest when you say you are standing at a
turning-point in your life?
Brendel. Does my own boy not know that wherever Ulrik Brendel stands he
is always in earnest about it? Look here, I mean to become a new man
now--to emerge from the cloak of reserve in which I have hitherto
shrouded myself.
Rosmer. In what way?
Brendel. I mean to take an active part in life--to step forward--to
look higher. The atmosphere we breathe is heavy with storms. I want now
to offer my mite upon the altar of emancipation.
Kroll. You too?
Brendel (to them all). Has your public here any intimate acquaintance
with my scattered writings?
Kroll. No, I must candidly confess that--
Rebecca. I have read several of them. My foster-father had them.
Brendel. My dear lady, then you have wasted your time. They are simply
trash, allow me to tell you.
Rebecca. Really?
Brendel. Those you have read, yes. My really important works no man or
woman knows anything about. No one--except myself.
Rebecca. How is that?
Brendel. Because they are not yet written.
Rosmer. But, my dear Mr. Brendel--
Brendel. You know, my dear John, that I am a bit of a sybarite--a
gourmet. I have always been so. I have a taste for solitary enjoyment,
because in that way my enjoyment is twice--ten times--as keen. It is,
like this. When I have been wrapped in a haze of golden dreams that
have descended on me--when new, intoxicating, momentous thoughts have
had their birth in my mind, and I have been fanned by the beat of their
wings as they bore me aloft--at such moments I have transformed them
into poetry, into visions, into pictures. In general outlines, that is
to say.
Rosmer. Quite so.
Brendel. You cannot imagine the luxury of enjoyment I have experienced!
The mysterious rapture of creation!--in, general outlines, as I said.
Applause, gratitude, eulogies, crowns of laurel!--all these I have
culled with full hands trembling with joy. In my secret ecstasies I
have steeped myself in a happiness so, intoxicating--
Kroll. Ahem!
Rosmer. But you have never written anything of it down?
Brendel. Not a word. The thought of the dull clerk's work that it would
mean has always moved me to a nauseating sense of disgust. Besides, why
should I profane my own ideals when I could enjoy them, in all their
purity, by myself? But now they shall be sacrificed. Honestly, I feel
as a mother must do when she entrusts her young daughter to the arms of
a husband. But I am going to, sacrifice them nevertheless--sacrifice
them on the altar of emancipation. A series of carefully thought-out
lectures, to be delivered all over the country!
Rebecca (impetuously). That is splendid of you, Mr. Brendel! You are
giving up the most precious thing you possess.
Rosmer. The only thing.
Rebecca (looking meaningly at ROSMER). I wonder how many there are who
would do as much--who dare do it?
Rosmer (returning her look). Who knows?
