Rebecca (goes up to ROSMER, and speaks in low, hurried tones, unheard
by KROLL). Do it!
Rosmer (in the same tone). Not to-night.
Rebecca (as before). Yes, this night of all others. (Goes away from him
and adjusts the lamp.)
Kroll (coming back). Yes, my dear John, so now you know the sort of
spirit of the age that has cast its shadow both over my home life and
my official work. Ought I not to oppose this appalling, destructive,
disorganising tendency with all the weapons I can lay my hands upon? Of
course it is certainly my duty--and that both with my pen and my tongue.
Rosmer. But have you any hope that you can produce any effect in that
way?
Kroll. At all events I mean to take my share in the fight as a citizen.
And I consider that it is the duty of every patriotic man, every man
who is concerned about what is right, to do the same. And, I may as
well tell you, that is really the reason why I have come here to see
you to-night.
Rosmer. My dear fellow, what do you mean? What can I--?
Kroll. You are going to help your old friends, and do as we are
doing--take your share in it to the best of your ability.
Rebecca. But, Mr. Kroll, you know how little taste Mr. Rosmer has for
that sort of thing.
Kroll. Then he has got to overcome that distaste now. You do not keep
abreast of the times, John. You sit here and bury yourself in your
historical researches. Goodness knows, I have the greatest respect for
family pedigrees and all that they imply. But this is not the time for
such occupations, unhappily. You have no conception of the state of
affairs that is going on all over the country. Every single idea is
turned upside down, or very nearly so. It will be a hard fight to get
all the errors straightened out again.
Rosmer. I can quite believe it. But that sort of a fight is not in my
line at all.
Rebecca. Besides, I rather fancy that Mr. Rosmer has come to look at
the affairs of life with wider opened eyes than before.
Kroll (with a start). Wider opened eyes?
Rebecca. Yes, or with an opener mind--with less prejudice.
Kroll. What do you mean by that? John--surely you could never be so
weak as to allow yourself to be deluded by the accidental circumstance
that the demagogues have scored a temporary success!
Rosmer. My dear fellow, you know very well that I am no judge of
politics; but it certainly seems to me that of late years individual
thought has become somewhat more independent.
Kroll. Quite so--but do you consider that as a matter of course to be a
good thing? In any case you are vastly mistaken, my friend. Just
inquire a little into the opinions that are current amongst the
Radicals, both out here in the country and in town. You will find them
to be nothing else than the words of wisdom that appear in the
"Searchlight".
