The chief of the Numidians remained amongst the Mercenaries. He appeared
desirous of attaching Matho to himself. He sent him fat goats, gold
dust, and ostrich feathers. The Libyan, who was amazed at such caresses,
was in doubt whether to respond to them or to become exasperated at
them. But Spendius pacified him, and Matho allowed himself to be ruled
by the slave, remaining ever irresolute and in an unconquerable torpor,
like those who have once taken a draught of which they are to die.
One morning when all three went out lion-hunting, Narr’ Havas
concealed a dagger in his cloak. Spendius kept continually behind him,
and when they returned the dagger had not been drawn.
Another time Narr’ Havas took them a long way off, as far as the
boundaries of his kingdom. They came to a narrow gorge, and Narr’
Havas smiled as he declared that he had forgotten the way. Spendius
found it again.
But most frequently Matho would go off at sunrise, as melancholy as
an augur, to wander about the country. He would stretch himself on the
sand, and remain there motionless until the evening.
He consulted all the soothsayers in the army one after the
other,—those who watch the trail of serpents, those who read the
stars, and those who breathe upon the ashes of the dead. He swallowed
galbanum, seseli, and viper’s venom which freezes the heart; Negro
women, singing barbarous words in the moonlight, pricked the skin of
his forehead with golden stylets; he loaded himself with necklaces
and charms; he invoked in turn Baal-Khamon, Moloch, the seven Kabiri,
Tanith, and the Venus of the Greeks. He engraved a name upon a copper
plate, and buried it in the sand at the threshold of his tent. Spendius
used to hear him groaning and talking to himself.
One night he went in.
Matho, as naked as a corpse, was lying on a lion’s skin flat on his
stomach, with his face in both his hands; a hanging lamp lit up his
armour, which was hooked on to the tent-pole above his head.
“You are suffering?” said the slave to him. “What is the matter
with you? Answer me?” And he shook him by the shoulder calling him
several times, “Master! master!”
At last Matho lifted large troubled eyes towards him.
“Listen!” he said in a low voice, and with a finger on his lips.
“It is the wrath of the Gods! Hamilcar’s daughter pursues me! I am
afraid of her, Spendius!” He pressed himself close against his breast
like a child terrified by a phantom. “Speak to me! I am sick! I want
to get well! I have tried everything! But you, you perhaps know some
stronger gods, or some resistless invocation?”
“For what purpose?” asked Spendius.
Striking his head with both his fists, he replied:
“To rid me of her!”
Then speaking to himself with long pauses he said:
“I am no doubt the victim of some holocaust which she has promised to
the gods?—She holds me fast by a chain which people cannot see. If I
walk, it is she that is advancing; when I stop, she is resting! Her eyes
burn me, I hear her voice. She encompasses me, she penetrates me. It
seems to me that she has become my soul!
