  "Vieni a veder Montecchi e Cappelletti,
  Monaldi e Filippeschi, uom senza cura,
  Color gia tristi, e costor con sospetti."[2]
The palace of the Capulets is to this day pointed out in Verona. It is
degraded to plebeian occupancy, and the only mark of its ancient dignity
is the badge of the family, the _cap_ carved in stone on the inner side
of the entrance to the court, which is of ample size, surrounded by
buildings that probably formed the main part of the mansion, but are now
divided into many tenements. The garden has disappeared, having been
covered with other buildings centuries ago.
The so-called "tomb of Juliet" is in a less disagreeable locality, but
is unquestionably a fraud, though it has been exhibited for a century or
two, and has received many tributes from credulous and sentimental
tourists. It is in the garden of an ancient convent, and consists of an
open, dilapidated stone sarcophagus (perhaps only an old horse-trough),
without inscription or any authentic history. It is kept in a kind of
shed, the walls of which are hung with faded wreaths and other mementoes
from visitors. One pays twenty-five centesimi (five cents) for the
privilege of inspecting it. Byron went to see it in 1816, and writes
(November 6) to his sister Augusta: "I brought away four small pieces
of it for you and the babes (at least the female part of them), and for
Ada and her mother, if she will accept it from you. I thought the
situation more appropriate to the history than if it had been less
blighted. This struck me more than all the antiquities, more even than
the amphitheatre." Maria Louisa, the French empress, got a piece of it,
which she had made into hearts and other forms for bracelets and
necklaces; and many other sentimental ladies followed the royal example
before the mutilation of the relic was prohibited by its guardians.
To return to the play--one would suppose that the keynote was struck
with sufficient clearness in the prologue to indicate Shakespeare's
purpose and the moral lesson that he meant to impress; but many of the
critics have nevertheless failed to understand it. They have assumed
that the misfortunes of the hero and heroine were mainly due to their
own rashness or imprudence in yielding to the impulses of passion
instead of obeying the dictates of reason. They think that the dramatist
speaks through Friar Laurence when he warns them against haste in the
marriage (ii. 6. 9 fol.):--
  "These violent delights have violent ends,
  And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
  Which as they kiss consume; the sweetest honey
  Is loathsome in his own deliciousness,
  And in the taste confounds the appetite.
  Therefore love moderately, long love doth so;
  Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow."
But the venerable celibate speaks for himself and in keeping with the
character, not for Shakespeare.
Neither does the poet, as some believe, intend to read a lesson against
clandestine marriage and disregard for the authority or approval of
parents in the match. The Friar, even at the first suggestion of the
hurried and secret marriage, does not oppose or discourage it on any
such grounds; nor, in the closing scene, does he blame either the lovers
or himself on that account. Nowhere in the play is there the slightest
suggestion of so-called "poetic justice" or retribution in the fate that
overtakes the unhappy pair.
