ARI. Thou liest; thou canst not.
    CAL. What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
    I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows
    And take his bottle from him: when that's gone
    He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him
    Where the quick freshes are.
STEPH. Trinculo, run into no further danger: interrupt the monster one
word further, and, by this hand, I'll turn my mercy out o' doors, and
make a stock-fish of thee.
TRIN. Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go farther off.
STEPH. Didst thou not say he lied?
ARI. Thou liest.
STEPH. Do I so? take thou that. [_Beats_ TRINCULO.] As you like this,
give me the lie another time.
TRIN. I did not give the lie. Out o' your wits and hearing too? A
plague o' your bottle! this can sack and drinking do. A murrain on your
monster, and the devil take your fingers.
CAL. Ha, ha, ha!
STEPH. Now, forward with your tale. Prithee, stand farther off.
    CAL. Beat him enough: after a little time
    I'll beat him too.
    STEPH.                 Stand farther. Come, proceed.
    CAL. Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him,
    I' th' afternoon to sleep: there thou mayst brain him,
    Having first seized his books, or with a log
    Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,
    Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember
    First to possess his books; for without them
    He's but a sot, as I am, nor hath not
    One spirit to command: they all do hate him
    As rootedly as I. Burn but his books.
    He has brave utensils,--for so he calls them,--
    Which, when he has a house, he'll deck withal.
    And that most deeply to consider is
    The beauty of his daughter; he himself
    Calls her a nonpareil: I never saw a woman,
    But only Sycorax my dam and she;
    But she as far surpasseth Sycorax
    As great'st does least.
    STEPH.                 Is it so brave a lass?
    CAL. Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant,
    And bring thee forth brave brood.
STEPH. Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and I will be
king and queen,--save our graces!--and Trinculo and thyself shall be
viceroys. Dost thou like the plot, Trinculo?
TRIN. Excellent.
STEPH. Give me thy hand: I am sorry I beat thee; but, while thou
livest, keep a good tongue in thy head.
    CAL. Within this half hour will he be asleep:
    Wilt thou destroy him then?
    STEPH.                 Ay, on mine honour.
ARI. This will I tell my master.
    CAL. Thou makest me merry; I am full of pleasure:
    Let us be jocund: will you troll the catch
    You taught me but while-ere?
STEPH. At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any reason. Come on,
Trinculo, let us sing.
    [_Sings_] Flout 'em and scout 'em
              And scout 'em and flout 'em;
                  Thought is free.
CAL. That's not the tune.
                           [ARIEL _plays the tune on a tabor and pipe_.
STEPH. What is this same?
