    SEB.                   I have no hope
    That he's undrown'd.
    ANT.                   O, out of that 'no hope'
    What great hope have you! no hope that way is
    Another way so high a hope that even
    Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond,
    But doubt discovery there. Will you grant with me
    That Ferdinand is drown'd?
    SEB.                   He's gone.
    ANT.                   Then, tell me,
    Who's the next heir of Naples?
    SEB.                   Claribel.
    ANT. She that is queen of Tunis; she that dwells
    Ten leagues beyond man's life; she that from Naples
    Can have no note, unless the sun were post--
    The man i' the moon's too slow--till new-born chins
    Be rough and razorable; she that from whom
    We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again,
    And by that destiny to perform an act
    Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
    In yours and my discharge.
    SEB.                   What stuff is this! how say you?
    'Tis true, my brother's daughter's queen of Tunis;
    So is she heir of Naples; 'twixt which regions
    There is some space.
    ANT.                   A space whose every cubit
    Seems to cry out, 'How shall that Claribel
    Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis,
    And let Sebastian wake.' Say, this were death
    That now hath seized them; why, they were no worse
    Than now they are. There be that can rule Naples
    As well as he that sleeps; lords that can prate
    As amply and unnecessarily
    As this Gonzalo; I myself could make
    A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore
    The mind that I do! what a sleep were this
    For your advancement! Do you understand me?
SEB. Methinks I do.
    ANT.                   And how does your content
    Tender your own good fortune?
    SEB.                   I remember
    You did supplant your brother Prospero.
    ANT.                   True:
    And look how well my garments sit upon me;
    Much feater than before: my brother's servants
    Were then my fellows: now they are my men.
    SEB. But, for your conscience?
    ANT. Ay, sir; where lies that? if 'twere a kibe,
    'Twould put me to my slipper: but I feel not
    This deity in my bosom: twenty consciences,
    That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they
    And melt ere they molest! Here lies your brother,
    No better than the earth he lies upon,
    If he were that which now he's like, that's dead;
    Whom I, with this obedient steel, three inches of it,
    Can lay to bed for ever; whiles you, doing thus,
    To the perpetual wink for aye might put
    This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who
    Should not upbraid our course. For all the rest,
    They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk;
    They'll tell the clock to any business that
    We say befits the hour.
    SEB.                   Thy case, dear friend,
    Shall be my precedent; as thou got'st Milan,
    I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword: one stroke
    Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest;
    And I the king shall love thee.
    ANT.                   Draw together;
    And when I rear my hand do you the like,
    To fall it on Gonzalo.
