Bryce and Keating were there, as Dunstan was quite sure they would
be--he was such a lucky fellow.
"Heyday!"  said Bryce, who had long had his eye on Wildfire, "you're on
your brother's horse to-day: how's that?"
"Oh, I've swopped with him," said Dunstan, whose delight in lying,
grandly independent of utility, was not to be diminished by the
likelihood that his hearer would not believe him--"Wildfire's mine now."
"What!  has he swopped with you for that big-boned hack of yours?" said
Bryce, quite aware that he should get another lie in answer.
"Oh, there was a little account between us," said Dunsey, carelessly,
"and Wildfire made it even.  I accommodated him by taking the horse,
though it was against my will, for I'd got an itch for a mare o'
Jortin's--as rare a bit o' blood as ever you threw your leg across.
But I shall keep Wildfire, now I've got him, though I'd a bid of a
hundred and fifty for him the other day, from a man over at
Flitton--he's buying for Lord Cromleck--a fellow with a cast in his
eye, and a green waistcoat.  But I mean to stick to Wildfire: I shan't
get a better at a fence in a hurry.  The mare's got more blood, but
she's a bit too weak in the hind-quarters."
Bryce of course divined that Dunstan wanted to sell the horse, and
Dunstan knew that he divined it (horse-dealing is only one of many
human transactions carried on in this ingenious manner); and they both
considered that the bargain was in its first stage, when Bryce replied
ironically--
"I wonder at that now; I wonder you mean to keep him; for I never heard
of a man who didn't want to sell his horse getting a bid of half as
much again as the horse was worth.  You'll be lucky if you get a
hundred."
Keating rode up now, and the transaction became more complicated. It
ended in the purchase of the horse by Bryce for a hundred and twenty,
to be paid on the delivery of Wildfire, safe and sound, at the
Batherley stables.  It did occur to Dunsey that it might be wise for
him to give up the day's hunting, proceed at once to Batherley, and,
having waited for Bryce's return, hire a horse to carry him home with
the money in his pocket.  But the inclination for a run, encouraged by
confidence in his luck, and by a draught of brandy from his
pocket-pistol at the conclusion of the bargain, was not easy to
overcome, especially with a horse under him that would take the fences
to the admiration of the field.  Dunstan, however, took one fence too
many, and got his horse pierced with a hedge-stake. His own
ill-favoured person, which was quite unmarketable, escaped without
injury; but poor Wildfire, unconscious of his price, turned on his
flank and painfully panted his last.  It happened that Dunstan, a short
time before, having had to get down to arrange his stirrup, had
muttered a good many curses at this interruption, which had thrown him
in the rear of the hunt near the moment of glory, and under this
exasperation had taken the fences more blindly.  He would soon have
been up with the hounds again, when the fatal accident happened; and
hence he was between eager riders in advance, not troubling themselves
about what happened behind them, and far-off stragglers, who were as
likely as not to pass quite aloof from the line of road in which
Wildfire had fallen.  Dunstan, whose nature it was to care more for
immediate annoyances than for remote consequences, no sooner recovered
his legs, and saw that it was all over with Wildfire, than he felt a
satisfaction at the absence of witnesses to a position which no
swaggering could make enviable. Reinforcing himself, after his shake,
with a little brandy and much swearing, he walked as fast as he could
to a coppice on his right hand, through which it occurred to him that
he could make his way to Batherley without danger of encountering any
member of the hunt. His first intention was to hire a horse there and
ride home forthwith, for to walk many miles without a gun in his hand,
and along an ordinary road, was as much out of the question to him as
to other spirited young men of his kind.  He did not much mind about
taking the bad news to Godfrey, for he had to offer him at the same
time the resource of Marner's money; and if Godfrey kicked, as he
always did, at the notion of making a fresh debt from which he himself
got the smallest share of advantage, why, he wouldn't kick long:
Dunstan felt sure he could worry Godfrey into anything.  The idea of
Marner's money kept growing in vividness, now the want of it had become
immediate; the prospect of having to make his appearance with the muddy
boots of a pedestrian at Batherley, and to encounter the grinning
queries of stablemen, stood unpleasantly in the way of his impatience
to be back at Raveloe and carry out his felicitous plan; and a casual
visitation of his waistcoat-pocket, as he was ruminating, awakened his
memory to the fact that the two or three small coins his forefinger
encountered there were of too pale a colour to cover that small debt,
without payment of which the stable-keeper had declared he would never
do any more business with Dunsey Cass.  After all, according to the
direction in which the run had brought him, he was not so very much
farther from home than he was from Batherley; but Dunsey, not being
remarkable for clearness of head, was only led to this conclusion by
the gradual perception that there were other reasons for choosing the
unprecedented course of walking home.  It was now nearly four o'clock,
and a mist was gathering: the sooner he got into the road the better.
He remembered having crossed the road and seen the finger-post only a
little while before Wildfire broke down; so, buttoning his coat,
twisting the lash of his hunting-whip compactly round the handle, and
rapping the tops of his boots with a self-possessed air, as if to
assure himself that he was not at all taken by surprise, he set off
with the sense that he was undertaking a remarkable feat of bodily
exertion, which somehow and at some time he should be able to dress up
and magnify to the admiration of a select circle at the Rainbow.  When
a young gentleman like Dunsey is reduced to so exceptional a mode of
locomotion as walking, a whip in his hand is a desirable corrective to
a too bewildering dreamy sense of unwontedness in his position; and
Dunstan, as he went along through the gathering mist, was always
rapping his whip somewhere.  It was Godfrey's whip, which he had chosen
to take without leave because it had a gold handle; of course no one
could see, when Dunstan held it, that the name _Godfrey Cass_ was cut
in deep letters on that gold handle--they could only see that it was a
very handsome whip. Dunsey was not without fear that he might meet some
acquaintance in whose eyes he would cut a pitiable figure, for mist is
no screen when people get close to each other; but when he at last
found himself in the well-known Raveloe lanes without having met a
soul, he silently remarked that that was part of his usual good luck.
But now the mist, helped by the evening darkness, was more of a screen
than he desired, for it hid the ruts into which his feet were liable to
slip--hid everything, so that he had to guide his steps by dragging his
whip along the low bushes in advance of the hedgerow. He must soon, he
thought, be getting near the opening at the Stone-pits: he should find
it out by the break in the hedgerow.  He found it out, however, by
another circumstance which he had not expected--namely, by certain
gleams of light, which he presently guessed to proceed from Silas
Marner's cottage.  That cottage and the money hidden within it had been
in his mind continually during his walk, and he had been imagining ways
of cajoling and tempting the weaver to part with the immediate
possession of his money for the sake of receiving interest.  Dunstan
felt as if there must be a little frightening added to the cajolery,
for his own arithmetical convictions were not clear enough to afford
him any forcible demonstration as to the advantages of interest; and as
for security, he regarded it vaguely as a means of cheating a man by
making him believe that he would be paid.  Altogether, the operation on
the miser's mind was a task that Godfrey would be sure to hand over to
his more daring and cunning brother: Dunstan had made up his mind to
that; and by the time he saw the light gleaming through the chinks of
Marner's shutters, the idea of a dialogue with the weaver had become so
familiar to him, that it occurred to him as quite a natural thing to
make the acquaintance forthwith.  There might be several conveniences
attending this course: the weaver had possibly got a lantern, and
Dunstan was tired of feeling his way.  He was still nearly
three-quarters of a mile from home, and the lane was becoming
unpleasantly slippery, for the mist was passing into rain. He turned up
the bank, not without some fear lest he might miss the right way, since
he was not certain whether the light were in front or on the side of
the cottage.  But he felt the ground before him cautiously with his
whip-handle, and at last arrived safely at the door.  He knocked
loudly, rather enjoying the idea that the old fellow would be
frightened at the sudden noise.  He heard no movement in reply: all was
silence in the cottage.  Was the weaver gone to bed, then?  If so, why
had he left a light?  That was a strange forgetfulness in a miser.
Dunstan knocked still more loudly, and, without pausing for a reply,
pushed his fingers through the latch-hole, intending to shake the door
and pull the latch-string up and down, not doubting that the door was
fastened. But, to his surprise, at this double motion the door opened,
and he found himself in front of a bright fire which lit up every
corner of the cottage--the bed, the loom, the three chairs, and the
table--and showed him that Marner was not there.
