"Most of us will find that quite as much as we can accomplish, I fancy,"
answered Mrs. Ward, thinking of her own riotous lads, who were probably
pulling the house about their ears, while she made hoods for Mrs.
Flanagan's bare-headed lasses.
"'Pears to me we hain't no call to interfere in other folks's affairs.
This never was a drinkin' town, and things is kep' in fustrate order, so
_I_ don't see the use of sech a talk about temperance," remarked Miss
Simmons, an acid spinster, whose principal earthly wealth consisted of a
choice collection of cats.
"If your tabbies took to drinking, you _would_ see the use, I'm sure,"
laughed Polly, from the corner, which was a perfect posy-bed of girls.
"Thank goodness, _I've_ no men folks to pester myself about," began Miss
Simmons, with asperity.
"Ah, but you should; for if you refuse to make them happy, you ought at
least to see that they console themselves in ways which can work them no
further woe," continued Polly, gravely, though her black eyes danced
with fun.
"Well, that wouldn't be no more than fair, I'm free to confess; but,
sakes alive, I couldn't attend to 'em all!" said Miss Simmons, bridling
with a simper that nearly upset the whole bevy of girls.
"Do make the effort, and help us poor things who haven't had your
experience," added Pris, in her most persuasive voice.
"I declare I will! I'll have Hiram Stebbins in to tea; and when he's as
good-natured as muffins and pie can make him, I'll set to and see if I
can't talk him out of his attachment to that brandy bottle," cried Miss
Simmons, with a sudden yearning towards the early sweetheart, who had
won, but never claimed her virgin affections.
"I think you'll do it; and, if so, you will have accomplished what no
one else could, and you shall have any prize you choose," cried Portia,
smiling so hopefully that the faded old face grew almost young again, as
Miss Simmons went home with something better to do than tend her
tabbies.
"We've bagged that bird," said Polly, with real satisfaction.
"That's the way we set people to work," added Portia, smiling.
"She will do what we can't, for her heart is in it," said Pris, softly;
and it was pleasant to see the blooming girls rejoice that poor old
Hiram was in a fair way to be saved.
So the year went round, and Thanksgiving came again, with the home
jollity that makes a festival throughout the land. The day would not be
perfect if it did not finish with a frolic of some sort, and for reasons
of their own the young gentlemen decided to have the first sociable of
the year an unusually pleasant one.
"Everybody is going, and Ned says the supper is to be water-ice and
ice-water," said Polly, taking a last look at herself in the long
mirror, when the three friends were ready on that happy evening.
