"God bless you, Pris!"
"God help you, Phil!"
That was all, but from that hour the girl felt her power for good, and
used it faithfully; and from that hour the young man worked bravely to
earn the respect and confidence without which no love is safe and happy.
"We are friends now," they said, when they were seen together again; and
friends they remained, in spite of shrugs and smiles, ill-natured
speeches, and more than one attempt to sow discord between them, for
people did not understand the new order of things.
"I trust him," was the only answer Pris gave to all warnings and
criticisms.
"I _will_ be worthy of her," the vow that kept Phil steady in spite of
the ridicule that is so hard to bear, and gave him courage to flee from
the temptation he was not yet strong enough to meet face to face.
Portia and Polly stood by them stanchly; for having made her father's
house a safe refuge, Portia offered Phil all the helpful influences of a
happy home. Polly, with Ned to lend a hand, gave his comrade many a
friendly lift; and when it was understood that the Judge, the minister,
and the "Sweet P's" indorsed the young M. D., no one dared cast a stone
at him.
All this took time, of course, but Phil got his reward at last, for one
night a little thing happened which showed him his own progress, and
made Pris feel that she might venture to wear the ring again.
At a party Phil was graciously invited to take wine with a lady, and
refused. It was a very hard thing to do, for the lady was his hostess, a
handsome woman, and the mother of a flock of little children, who all
preferred the young doctor to the old one; and, greatest trial of all,
several of his most dreaded comrades stood by to laugh at him, if he
dared to let principle outweigh courtesy.
But he did it, though he grew pale with the effort to say steadily,--
"Will Mrs. Ward pardon me if I decline the honor? I am"--
There he stopped and turned scarlet, for a lie was on his lips,--a lie
so much easier to tell than the honest truth that many would have
forgiven its utterance at that minute.
His hostess naturally thought ill health was his excuse, and, pitying
his embarrassment, said, smiling,--
"Ah! you doctors don't prescribe wine for your own ailments as readily
as for those of your patients."
But Phil, angry at his own weakness, spoke out frankly, with a look that
said more than his words,--
"I cannot even accept the kind excuse you offer me, for I am not ill. It
may be my duty to order wine sometimes for my patients, but it is also
my duty to prescribe water for myself."
A dreadful little pause followed that speech; but Mrs. Ward understood
now, and though she thought the scruple a foolish one, she accepted the
apology like a well-bred woman, and, with a silent bow that ended the
matter, turned to other guests, leaving poor Phil to his fate.
