The members of the vestry could not be supposed to escape the contagious
excitement inseparable from the occasion.  The majority of the lady
inhabitants of the parish declared at once for Spruggins; and the
_quondam_ overseer took the same side, on the ground that men with large
families always had been elected to the office, and that although he must
admit, that, in other respects, Spruggins was the least qualified
candidate of the two, still it was an old practice, and he saw no reason
why an old practice should be departed from.  This was enough for the
captain.  He immediately sided with Bung, canvassed for him personally in
all directions, wrote squibs on Spruggins, and got his butcher to skewer
them up on conspicuous joints in his shop-front; frightened his
neighbour, the old lady, into a palpitation of the heart, by his awful
denunciations of Spruggins's party; and bounced in and out, and up and
down, and backwards and forwards, until all the sober inhabitants of the
parish thought it inevitable that he must die of a brain fever, long
before the election began.
The day of election arrived.  It was no longer an individual struggle,
but a party contest between the ins and outs.  The question was, whether
the withering influence of the overseers, the domination of the
churchwardens, and the blighting despotism of the vestry-clerk, should be
allowed to render the election of beadle a form--a nullity: whether they
should impose a vestry-elected beadle on the parish, to do their bidding
and forward their views, or whether the parishioners, fearlessly
asserting their undoubted rights, should elect an independent beadle of
their own.
The nomination was fixed to take place in the vestry, but so great was
the throng of anxious spectators, that it was found necessary to adjourn
to the church, where the ceremony commenced with due solemnity.  The
appearance of the churchwardens and overseers, and the ex-churchwardens
and ex-overseers, with Spruggins in the rear, excited general attention.
Spruggins was a little thin man, in rusty black, with a long pale face,
and a countenance expressive of care and fatigue, which might either be
attributed to the extent of his family or the anxiety of his feelings.
His opponent appeared in a cast-off coat of the captain's--a blue coat
with bright buttons; white trousers, and that description of shoes
familiarly known by the appellation of 'high-lows.'  There was a serenity
in the open countenance of Bung--a kind of moral dignity in his confident
air--an 'I wish you may get it' sort of expression in his eye--which
infused animation into his supporters, and evidently dispirited his
opponents.
The ex-churchwarden rose to propose Thomas Spruggins for beadle.  He had
known him long.  He had had his eye upon him closely for years; he had
watched him with twofold vigilance for months.  (A parishioner here
suggested that this might be termed 'taking a double sight,' but the
observation was drowned in loud cries of 'Order!')  He would repeat that
he had had his eye upon him for years, and this he would say, that a more
well-conducted, a more well-behaved, a more sober, a more quiet man, with
a more well-regulated mind, he had never met with.  A man with a larger
family he had never known (cheers).  The parish required a man who could
be depended on ('Hear!' from the Spruggins side, answered by ironical
cheers from the Bung party).  Such a man he now proposed ('No,' 'Yes').
He would not allude to individuals (the ex-churchwarden continued, in the
celebrated negative style adopted by great speakers).  He would not
advert to a gentleman who had once held a high rank in the service of his
majesty; he would not say, that that gentleman was no gentleman; he would
not assert, that that man was no man; he would not say, that he was a
turbulent parishioner; he would not say, that he had grossly misbehaved
himself, not only on this, but on all former occasions; he would not say,
that he was one of those discontented and treasonable spirits, who
carried confusion and disorder wherever they went; he would not say, that
he harboured in his heart envy, and hatred, and malice, and all
uncharitableness.  No!  He wished to have everything comfortable and
pleasant, and therefore, he would say--nothing about him (cheers).
