At last, the Miss Willises moved in; and then the 'calling' began.  The
house was the perfection of neatness--so were the four Miss Willises.
Everything was formal, stiff, and cold--so were the four Miss Willises.
Not a single chair of the whole set was ever seen out of its place--not a
single Miss Willis of the whole four was ever seen out of hers.  There
they always sat, in the same places, doing precisely the same things at
the same hour.  The eldest Miss Willis used to knit, the second to draw,
the two others to play duets on the piano.  They seemed to have no
separate existence, but to have made up their minds just to winter
through life together.  They were three long graces in drapery, with the
addition, like a school-dinner, of another long grace afterwards--the
three fates with another sister--the Siamese twins multiplied by two.
The eldest Miss Willis grew bilious--the four Miss Willises grew bilious
immediately.  The eldest Miss Willis grew ill-tempered and religious--the
four Miss Willises were ill-tempered and religious directly.  Whatever
the eldest did, the others did, and whatever anybody else did, they all
disapproved of; and thus they vegetated--living in Polar harmony among
themselves, and, as they sometimes went out, or saw company 'in a
quiet-way' at home, occasionally icing the neighbours.  Three years
passed over in this way, when an unlooked for and extraordinary
phenomenon occurred.  The Miss Willises showed symptoms of summer, the
frost gradually broke up; a complete thaw took place.  Was it possible?
one of the four Miss Willises was going to be married!
Now, where on earth the husband came from, by what feelings the poor man
could have been actuated, or by what process of reasoning the four Miss
Willises succeeded in persuading themselves that it was possible for a
man to marry one of them, without marrying them all, are questions too
profound for us to resolve: certain it is, however, that the visits of
Mr. Robinson (a gentleman in a public office, with a good salary and a
little property of his own, besides) were received--that the four Miss
Willises were courted in due form by the said Mr Robinson--that the
neighbours were perfectly frantic in their anxiety to discover which of
the four Miss Willises was the fortunate fair, and that the difficulty
they experienced in solving the problem was not at all lessened by the
announcement of the eldest Miss Willis,--'_We_ are going to marry Mr.
Robinson.'
It was very extraordinary.  They were so completely identified, the one
with the other, that the curiosity of the whole row--even of the old lady
herself--was roused almost beyond endurance.  The subject was discussed
at every little card-table and tea-drinking.  The old gentleman of
silk-worm notoriety did not hesitate to express his decided opinion that
Mr. Robinson was of Eastern descent, and contemplated marrying the whole
family at once; and the row, generally, shook their heads with
considerable gravity, and declared the business to be very mysterious.
They hoped it might all end well;--it certainly had a very singular
appearance, but still it would be uncharitable to express any opinion
without good grounds to go upon, and certainly the Miss Willises were
_quite_ old enough to judge for themselves, and to be sure people ought
to know their own business best, and so forth.
