'Now this was bad enough,' resumed Mr. Bung, taking a half-step towards
the door, as if to intimate that he had nearly concluded.  'This was bad
enough, but there was a sort of quiet misery--if you understand what I
mean by that, sir--about a lady at one house I was put into, as touched
me a good deal more.  It doesn't matter where it was exactly: indeed, I'd
rather not say, but it was the same sort o' job.  I went with Fixem in
the usual way--there was a year's rent in arrear; a very small
servant-girl opened the door, and three or four fine-looking little
children was in the front parlour we were shown into, which was very
clean, but very scantily furnished, much like the children themselves.
"Bung," says Fixem to me, in a low voice, when we were left alone for a
minute, "I know something about this here family, and my opinion is, it's
no go."  "Do you think they can't settle?" says I, quite anxiously; for I
liked the looks of them children.  Fixem shook his head, and was just
about to reply, when the door opened, and in come a lady, as white as
ever I see any one in my days, except about the eyes, which were red with
crying.  She walked in, as firm as I could have done; shut the door
carefully after her, and sat herself down with a face as composed as if
it was made of stone.  "What is the matter, gentlemen?" says she, in a
surprisin' steady voice.  "_Is_ this an execution?"  "It is, mum," says
Fixem.  The lady looked at him as steady as ever: she didn't seem to have
understood him.  "It is, mum," says Fixem again; "this is my warrant of
distress, mum," says he, handing it over as polite as if it was a
newspaper which had been bespoke arter the next gentleman.
'The lady's lip trembled as she took the printed paper.  She cast her eye
over it, and old Fixem began to explain the form, but saw she wasn't
reading it, plain enough, poor thing.  "Oh, my God!" says she, suddenly
a-bursting out crying, letting the warrant fall, and hiding her face in
her hands.  "Oh, my God! what will become of us!"  The noise she made,
brought in a young lady of about nineteen or twenty, who, I suppose, had
been a-listening at the door, and who had got a little boy in her arms:
she sat him down in the lady's lap, without speaking, and she hugged the
poor little fellow to her bosom, and cried over him, till even old Fixem
put on his blue spectacles to hide the two tears, that was a-trickling
down, one on each side of his dirty face.  "Now, dear ma," says the young
lady, "you know how much you have borne.  For all our sakes--for pa's
sake," says she, "don't give way to this!"--"No, no, I won't!" says the
lady, gathering herself up, hastily, and drying her eyes; "I am very
foolish, but I'm better now--much better."  And then she roused herself
up, went with us into every room while we took the inventory, opened all
the drawers of her own accord, sorted the children's little clothes to
make the work easier; and, except doing everything in a strange sort of
hurry, seemed as calm and composed as if nothing had happened.  When we
came down-stairs again, she hesitated a minute or two, and at last says,
"Gentlemen," says she, "I am afraid I have done wrong, and perhaps it may
bring you into trouble.  I secreted just now," she says, "the only
trinket I have left in the world--here it is."  So she lays down on the
table a little miniature mounted in gold.  "It's a miniature," she says,
"of my poor dear father!  I little thought once, that I should ever thank
God for depriving me of the original, but I do, and have done for years
back, most fervently.  Take it away, sir," she says, "it's a face that
never turned from me in sickness and distress, and I can hardly bear to
turn from it now, when, God knows, I suffer both in no ordinary degree."
I couldn't say nothing, but I raised my head from the inventory which I
was filling up, and looked at Fixem; the old fellow nodded to me
significantly, so I ran my pen through the "_Mini_" I had just written,
and left the miniature on the table.
