                           MR BUNG'S NARRATIVE
'It's very true, as you say, sir,' Mr. Bung commenced, 'that a broker's
man's is not a life to be envied; and in course you know as well as I do,
though you don't say it, that people hate and scout 'em because they're
the ministers of wretchedness, like, to poor people.  But what could I
do, sir?  The thing was no worse because I did it, instead of somebody
else; and if putting me in possession of a house would put me in
possession of three and sixpence a day, and levying a distress on another
man's goods would relieve my distress and that of my family, it can't be
expected but what I'd take the job and go through with it.  I never liked
it, God knows; I always looked out for something else, and the moment I
got other work to do, I left it.  If there is anything wrong in being the
agent in such matters--not the principal, mind you--I'm sure the
business, to a beginner like I was, at all events, carries its own
punishment along with it.  I wished again and again that the people would
only blow me up, or pitch into me--that I wouldn't have minded, it's all
in my way; but it's the being shut up by yourself in one room for five
days, without so much as an old newspaper to look at, or anything to see
out o' the winder but the roofs and chimneys at the back of the house, or
anything to listen to, but the ticking, perhaps, of an old Dutch clock,
the sobbing of the missis, now and then, the low talking of friends in
the next room, who speak in whispers, lest "the man" should overhear
them, or perhaps the occasional opening of the door, as a child peeps in
to look at you, and then runs half-frightened away--it's all this, that
makes you feel sneaking somehow, and ashamed of yourself; and then, if
it's wintertime, they just give you fire enough to make you think you'd
like more, and bring in your grub as if they wished it 'ud choke you--as
I dare say they do, for the matter of that, most heartily.  If they're
very civil, they make you up a bed in the room at night, and if they
don't, your master sends one in for you; but there you are, without being
washed or shaved all the time, shunned by everybody, and spoken to by no
one, unless some one comes in at dinner-time, and asks you whether you
want any more, in a tone as much to say, "I hope you don't," or, in the
evening, to inquire whether you wouldn't rather have a candle, after
you've been sitting in the dark half the night.  When I was left in this
way, I used to sit, think, think, thinking, till I felt as lonesome as a
kitten in a wash-house copper with the lid on; but I believe the old
brokers' men who are regularly trained to it, never think at all.  I have
heard some on 'em say, indeed, that they don't know how!
