THE SCHOOLBOY’S STORY.
[1853]
BEING rather young at present—I am getting on in years, but still I am
rather young—I have no particular adventures of my own to fall back upon.
It wouldn’t much interest anybody here, I suppose, to know what a screw
the Reverend is, or what a griffin _she_ is, or how they do stick it into
parents—particularly hair-cutting, and medical attendance.  One of our
fellows was charged in his half’s account twelve and sixpence for two
pills—tolerably profitable at six and threepence a-piece, I should
think—and he never took them either, but put them up the sleeve of his
jacket.
        [Picture: Schoolboy with book: illustrated by Fred Walker]
As to the beef, it’s shameful.  It’s _not_ beef.  Regular beef isn’t
veins.  You can chew regular beef.  Besides which, there’s gravy to
regular beef, and you never see a drop to ours.  Another of our fellows
went home ill, and heard the family doctor tell his father that he
couldn’t account for his complaint unless it was the beer.  Of course it
was the beer, and well it might be!
However, beef and Old Cheeseman are two different things.  So is beer.
It was Old Cheeseman I meant to tell about; not the manner in which our
fellows get their constitutions destroyed for the sake of profit.
Why, look at the pie-crust alone.  There’s no flakiness in it.  It’s
solid—like damp lead.  Then our fellows get nightmares, and are bolstered
for calling out and waking other fellows.  Who can wonder!
Old Cheeseman one night walked in his sleep, put his hat on over his
night-cap, got hold of a fishing-rod and a cricket-bat, and went down
into the parlour, where they naturally thought from his appearance he was
a Ghost.  Why, he never would have done that if his meals had been
wholesome.  When we all begin to walk in our sleeps, I suppose they’ll be
sorry for it.
Old Cheeseman wasn’t second Latin Master then; he was a fellow himself.
He was first brought there, very small, in a post-chaise, by a woman who
was always taking snuff and shaking him—and that was the most he
remembered about it.  He never went home for the holidays.  His accounts
(he never learnt any extras) were sent to a Bank, and the Bank paid them;
and he had a brown suit twice a-year, and went into boots at twelve.
They were always too big for him, too.
In the Midsummer holidays, some of our fellows who lived within walking
distance, used to come back and climb the trees outside the playground
wall, on purpose to look at Old Cheeseman reading there by himself.  He
was always as mild as the tea—and _that’s_ pretty mild, I should hope!—so
when they whistled to him, he looked up and nodded; and when they said,
“Halloa, Old Cheeseman, what have you had for dinner?” he said, “Boiled
mutton;” and when they said, “An’t it solitary, Old Cheeseman?” he said,
“It is a little dull sometimes:” and then they said, “Well good-bye, Old
Cheeseman!” and climbed down again.  Of course it was imposing on Old
Cheeseman to give him nothing but boiled mutton through a whole Vacation,
but that was just like the system.  When they didn’t give him boiled
mutton, they gave him rice pudding, pretending it was a treat.  And saved
the butcher.
