The great heart of Dickens has beat in unison with his age and with the
people, and his name will be dear to all English-speaking races long
after this little island of ours, the old home, shall have become a
summer resort—a curiosity to visit—for the children of the great
Anglo-Saxon Republics that are now growing up in the New and the Southern
Worlds.
_December_, 1869.
I.
EDINBURGH, JUNE 25, 1841.
[At a public dinner, given in honour of Mr. Dickens, and presided over by
the late Professor Wilson, the Chairman having proposed his health in a
long and eloquent speech, Mr. Dickens returned thanks as follows:—]
IF I felt your warm and generous welcome less, I should be better able to
thank you.  If I could have listened as you have listened to the glowing
language of your distinguished Chairman, and if I could have heard as you
heard the “thoughts that breathe and words that burn,” which he has
uttered, it would have gone hard but I should have caught some portion of
his enthusiasm, and kindled at his example.  But every word which fell
from his lips, and every demonstration of sympathy and approbation with
which you received his eloquent expressions, renders me unable to respond
to his kindness, and leaves me at last all heart and no lips, yearning to
respond as I would do to your cordial greeting—possessing, heaven knows,
the will, and desiring only to find the way.
The way to your good opinion, favour, and support, has been to me very
pleasing—a path strewn with flowers and cheered with sunshine.  I feel as
if I stood amongst old friends, whom I had intimately known and highly
valued.  I feel as if the deaths of the fictitious creatures, in which
you have been kind enough to express an interest, had endeared us to each
other as real afflictions deepen friendships in actual life; I feel as if
they had been real persons, whose fortunes we had pursued together in
inseparable connexion, and that I had never known them apart from you.
It is a difficult thing for a man to speak of himself or of his works.
But perhaps on this occasion I may, without impropriety, venture to say a
word on the spirit in which mine were conceived.  I felt an earnest and
humble desire, and shall do till I die, to increase the stock of harmless
cheerfulness.  I felt that the world was not utterly to be despised; that
it was worthy of living in for many reasons.  I was anxious to find, as
the Professor has said, if I could, in evil things, that soul of goodness
which the Creator has put in them.  I was anxious to show that virtue may
be found in the bye-ways of the world, that it is not incompatible with
poverty and even with rags, and to keep steadily through life the motto,
expressed in the burning words of your Northern poet—
    “The rank is but the guinea stamp,
    The man’s the gowd for a’ that.”
