"I _will_ know what they are at. I'm sure it is mischief, and I won't go
back with only my walk for my pains," thought Tabby; and marching into
the kitchen, she presented her eggs with a civil message from Madam
Hosmer.
"They are mighty welcome, child. I've used a sight for my custards, and
need more for the flip. We've company to dinner unexpected, and I'm much
put about," said Mrs. Bliss, who seemed to be concerned about something
besides the dinner, and in her flurry forgot to be surprised at the
unusual gift; for the neighbors shunned them, and the poor woman had
many anxieties on her husband's account, the family being divided,--one
brother a Tory, and one a Rebel.
"Can I help, ma'am? I'm a master hand at beating eggs, Aunt Hitty says.
I'm tired, and wouldn't mind sitting a bit if I'm not in the way," said
Tabby, bound to discover something more before she left.
"But you be in the way. We don't want any help, so you'd better be
steppin' along home, else suthin' besides eggs may git whipped.
Tale-bearers ain't welcome here," said old Puah, the maid, a sour
spinster, who sympathized with her master, and openly declared she hoped
the British would put down the Yankee Rebels soon and sharply.
Mrs. Bliss was in the pantry, and heard nothing of this little passage
of arms; for Tabby hotly resented the epithet of "tale-bearer," though
she knew that the men in the parlor were not the only spies on the
premises.
"When you are all drummed out of town and this house burnt to the
ground, you may be glad of my help, and I wish you may get it. Good-day,
old crab-apple," answered saucy Tabby; and catching up her basket, she
marched out of the kitchen with her nose in the air.
But as she passed the front of the house, she could not resist another
look at the fine dinner-table; for in those days few had time or heart
for feasting, and the best napery and china seldom appeared. One window
stood open, and as the girl leaned in, something moved under the long
cloth that swept the floor. It was not the wind, for the March day was
still and sunny, and in a minute out popped a gray cat's head, and puss
came purring to meet the new-comer whose step had roused her from a nap.
"Where one tabby hides, another can. Can I dare to do it? What would
become of me if found out? How wonderful it would be if I could hear
what these men are plotting. I will!"
A sound in the next room decided her; and, thrusting the basket among
the bushes, she leaped lightly in and vanished under the table, leaving
puss calmly washing her face on the window-sill.
As soon as it was done Tabby's heart began to flutter; but it was too
late to retreat, for at that moment in bustled Mrs. Bliss, and the poor
girl could only make herself as small as possible, quite hidden under
the long folds that fell on all sides from the wide, old-fashioned
table. She discovered nothing from the women's chat, for it ran on
sage-cheese, egg-nog, roast pork, and lamentations over a burnt pie. By
the time dinner was served, and the guests called in to eat it, Tabby
was calm enough to have all her wits about her, and pride gave her
courage to be ready for the consequences, whatever they might be.
