Such an early spring had not been known for years; and by the 19th of
April fruit trees were in bloom, winter grain was up, and the stately
elms that fringed the river and overarched the village streets were
budding fast. It seemed a pity that such a lovely world should be
disturbed by strife; but liberty was dearer than prosperity or peace,
and the people leaped from their beds when young Dr. Prescott came,
riding for his life, with the message Paul Revere brought from Boston in
the night:--
"Arm! arm! the British are coming!"
Like an electric spark the news ran from house to house, and men made
ready to fight, while the brave women bade them go, and did their best
to guard the treasure confided to their keeping. A little later, word
came that the British were at Lexington, and blood had been shed. Then
the farmers shouldered their guns, with few words but stern faces, and
by sunrise a hundred men stood ready, with good Parson Emerson at their
head. More men were coming in from the neighboring towns, and all felt
that the hour had arrived when patience ceased to be a virtue and
rebellion was just.
Great was the excitement everywhere; but at Captain David Brown's one
little heart beat high with hope and fear, as Tabby stood at the door,
looking across the river to the town, where drums were beating, bells
ringing, and people hurrying to and fro.
"I can't fight, but I _must_ see," she said; and catching up her cloak,
she ran over the North Bridge, promising her aunt to return and bring
her word as soon as the enemy appeared.
"What news? Are they coming?" called the people, from the Manse and the
few houses that then stood along that road. But Tabby could only shake
her head and run the faster, in her eagerness to see what was happening
on that memorable day. When she reached the middle of the town she found
that the little company had gone along the Lexington road to meet the
enemy. Nothing daunted, she hurried in that direction and, climbing a
high bank, waited to catch a glimpse of the British grenadiers, of whom
she had heard so much.
About seven o'clock they came, the sun glittering on the arms of eight
hundred English soldiers marching toward the hundred stout-hearted
farmers, who waited till they were within a few rods of them.
"Let us stand our ground; and if we die, let us die here," said brave
Parson Emerson, still among his people, ready for anything but
surrender.
"Nay," said a cautious Lincoln man, "it will not do for us to _begin_
the war."
So they reluctantly fell back to the town, the British following slowly,
being weary with their seven-mile march over the hills from Lexington.
Coming to a little brown house perched on the hillside, one of the
thirsty officers spied a well, with the bucket swinging at the end of
the long pole. Running up the bank, he was about to drink, when a girl,
who was crouching behind the well, sprang up, and with an energetic
gesture, flung the water in his face, crying:--
