"'Joe--wolves--the big woods--go!' when my senses failed me, and I was
carried in."
Here Madam Shirley leaned back in her chair quite used up, for she had
been acting the scene to a breathless audience, and laying about her
with her handkerchief so vigorously that her eyes snapped, her cheeks
were red, and her dear old cap all awry.
"But Joe--did they eat him?" cried the boys in great excitement, while
the girls held to one another, and the poor little wheel lay flat, upset
by the blows of the imaginary demijohn, dealt to an equally imaginary
wolf.
"Hardly,--since he lived to be your grandfather," laughed the old lady,
in high feather at the success of her story.
"No, no,--we mean the horse;" shouted Geoff, while the others roared at
the mistake.
"Yes, they did. Poor old Buck saved us, at the cost of his own life. His
troubles were over, but mine were not; for when I came to, I saw Mr.
Beaman, and my first thought and word was 'Joe?'"
"'Too late--they'd got him, so we turned back to tell you,' said that
stupid man.
"I gave one cry and was going off again, when his wife shook me, and
says, laughing: 'You little goose! He means the folks from the Major's.
A lot came along and found Joe, and took him home, and soon's ever
you're fit we'll send you along, too.'
"'I'm ready now,' says I, jumping up in a hurry. But I had to sit down
again, for my feet were all cut and bleeding, and my slippers just rags.
They fixed me up and off I went, to find mother in a sad taking. But Joe
was all right; he hadn't broken his leg, but only sprained it badly, and
being the wounded one he was laid up longer than I. We both got well,
however, and the first time Joe went out he hobbled over to our house. I
was spinning again then, and thought I might need my wedding outfit,
after all--On the whole, I guess we'll end the story here; young folks
wouldn't care for that part."
As grandma paused, the girls cried out with one voice: "Yes, we do! we
like it best. You said you would. Tell about the wedding and all."
"Well, well, it isn't much. Joe came and sat by me, and, as we talked
over our adventure, he cut that true lover's knot between the letters. I
didn't seem to mind, and spun away till he pointed to it, saying, with
the look that always made me meek as a lamb, 'May it stand so, my little
Betsey?'
"I said 'Yes, Joe,' and then--well, never mind that bit;--we were
married in June, and I spun and wove my wedding things afterward.
Dreadful slack, my mother thought, but I didn't care. My wedding gown
was white lutestring, full trimmed with old lace. Hair over a cushion
with white roses, and the pearl necklace, just as you see up there. Joe
wore his uniform, and I tied up his hair with a white satin ribbon. He
looked beautiful,--and so did I."
