"I would do more than that, though it was a fearsome run through the
dark woods. Wouldn't those two like to know all I know about the
stores? But I wouldn't tell 'em, not if they drove a bayonet through me.
I'm not afeard of 'em;" and Tabby tossed her head defiantly, as she
paused to shift her basket from one arm to the other.
But she evidently was "afeard" of something, for her ruddy cheeks turned
pale and her heart gave a thump, as two men came in sight, and stopped
suddenly on seeing her. They were strangers; and though nothing in their
dress indicated it, the girl's quick eye saw that they were soldiers;
step and carriage betrayed it, and the rapidity with which these martial
gentlemen changed into quiet travellers roused her suspicions at once.
They exchanged a few whispered words; then they came on, swinging their
stout sticks, one whistling, the other keeping a keen lookout along the
lonely road before and behind them.
"My pretty lass, can you tell me where Mr. Daniel Bliss lives?" asked
the younger, with a smile and a salute.
Tabby was sure now that they were British; for the voice was deep and
full, the face a ruddy English face, and the man they wanted was a
well-known Tory. But she showed no sign of alarm, beyond the modest
color in her cheeks, and answered civilly: "Yes, sir, over yonder a
piece."
"Thanks, and a kiss for that," said the young man, stooping to bestow
his gift. But he got a smart box on the ear, and Tabby ran off in a fury
of indignation.
With a laugh they went on, never dreaming that the little Rebel was
going to turn spy herself, and get the better of them. She hurried away
to Deacon Hosmer's, and did her errand, adding thereto the news that
strangers were in town. "We must know more of them," said the Deacon.
"Clap a different suit on her, wife, and send her with the eggs to Mrs.
Bliss. We have all we want of them, and Tabby can look well about her,
while she rests and gossips over there. Bliss must be looked after
smartly, for he is a knave, and will do us harm."
Away went Tabby in a blue cloak and hood, much pleased with her mission;
and, coming to the Tory's house about noon, smelt afar off a savory odor
of roasting meat and baking pies.
Stepping softly to the back-door, she peeped through a small window, and
saw Mrs. Bliss and her handmaid cooking away in the big kitchen, too
busy to heed the little spy, who slipped around to the front of the
house, to take a general survey before she went in. All she saw
confirmed her suspicions; for in the keeping-room a table was set forth
in great style, with the silver tankards, best china, and the fine
damask table-cloth, which the housewife kept for holidays. Still another
peep through the lilac bushes before the parlor windows showed her the
two strangers closeted with Mr. Bliss, all talking earnestly, but in too
low a tone for a word to reach even her sharp ears.
