“It will never do to let them escape now,” he said, at the same time
drawing his revolver.
On our next circuit, he threatened the Italians with the weapon; but they
rowed on stolidly, keeping splendid stroke and utterly disregarding him.
“If you don’t stop, I’ll shoot,” Charley said menacingly.
But this had no effect, nor were they to be frightened into surrendering
even when he fired several shots dangerously close to them.  It was too
much to expect him to shoot unarmed men, and this they knew as well as we
did; so they continued to pull doggedly round and round the ship.
“We’ll run them down, then!” Charley exclaimed.  “We’ll wear them out and
wind them!”
So the chase continued.  Twenty times more we ran them around the
_Lancashire Queen_, and at last we could see that even their iron muscles
were giving out.  They were nearly exhausted, and it was only a matter of
a few more circuits, when the game took on a new feature.  On the row to
windward they always gained on us, so that they were half-way down the
ship’s side on the row to leeward when we were passing the bow.  But this
last time, as we passed the bow, we saw them escaping up the ship’s
gangway, which had been suddenly lowered.  It was an organized move on
the part of the sailors, evidently countenanced by the captain; for by
the time we arrived where the gangway had been, it was being hoisted up,
and the skiff, slung in the ship’s davits, was likewise flying aloft out
of reach.
The parley that followed with the captain was short and snappy.  He
absolutely forbade us to board the _Lancashire Queen_, and as absolutely
refused to give up the two men.  By this time Charley was as enraged as
the Greek.  Not only had he been foiled in a long and ridiculous chase,
but he had been knocked senseless into the bottom of his boat by the men
who had escaped him.
“Knock off my head with little apples,” he declared emphatically,
striking the fist of one hand into the palm of the other, “if those two
men ever escape me!  I’ll stay here to get them if it takes the rest of
my natural life, and if I don’t get them, then I promise you I’ll live
unnaturally long or until I do get them, or my name’s not Charley Le
Grant!”
And then began the siege of the _Lancashire Queen_, a siege memorable in
the annals of both fishermen and fish patrol.  When the _Reindeer_ came
along, after a fruitless pursuit of the shad fleet, Charley instructed
Neil Partington to send out his own salmon boat, with blankets,
provisions, and a fisherman’s charcoal stove.  By sunset this exchange of
boats was made, and we said good-by to our Greek, who perforce had to go
into Benicia and be locked up for his own violation of the law.  After
supper, Charley and I kept alternate four-hour watches till daylight.
The fishermen made no attempt to escape that night, though the ship sent
out a boat for scouting purposes to find if the coast were clear.
