"Yes: but the one that weakens all the others. Why the deuce do you want
this thing known? Why do you want to put your head into the noose?"
Granice looked at him hopelessly, trying to take the measure of his
quick light irreverent mind. No one so full of a cheerful animal life
would believe in the craving for death as a sufficient motive; and
Granice racked his brain for one more convincing. But suddenly he saw
the reporter's face soften, and melt to a naive sentimentalism.
"Mr. Granice--has the memory of it always haunted you?"
Granice stared a moment, and then leapt at the opening. "That's it--the
memory of it ... always ..."
McCarren nodded vehemently. "Dogged your steps, eh? Wouldn't let you
sleep? The time came when you _had_ to make a clean breast of it?"
"I had to. Can't you understand?"
The reporter struck his fist on the table. "God, sir! I don't suppose
there's a human being with a drop of warm blood in him that can't
picture the deadly horrors of remorse--"
The Celtic imagination was aflame, and Granice mutely thanked him for
the word. What neither Ascham nor Denver would accept as a conceivable
motive the Irish reporter seized on as the most adequate; and, as he
said, once one could find a convincing motive, the difficulties of the
case became so many incentives to effort.
"Remorse--_remorse_," he repeated, rolling the word under his tongue
with an accent that was a clue to the psychology of the popular drama;
and Granice, perversely, said to himself: "If I could only have struck
that note I should have been running in six theatres at once."
He saw that from that moment McCarren's professional zeal would be
fanned by emotional curiosity; and he profited by the fact to propose
that they should dine together, and go on afterward to some music-hall
or theatre. It was becoming necessary to Granice to feel himself an
object of pre-occupation, to find himself in another mind. He took a
kind of gray penumbral pleasure in riveting McCarren's attention on his
case; and to feign the grimaces of moral anguish became a passionately
engrossing game. He had not entered a theatre for months; but he sat out
the meaningless performance in rigid tolerance, sustained by the sense
of the reporter's observation.
Between the acts, McCarren amused him with anecdotes about the audience:
he knew every one by sight, and could lift the curtain from every
physiognomy. Granice listened indulgently. He had lost all interest in
his kind, but he knew that he was himself the real centre of McCarren's
attention, and that every word the latter spoke had an indirect bearing
on his own problem.
"See that fellow over there--the little dried-up man in the third
row, pulling his moustache? _His_ memoirs would be worth publishing,"
McCarren said suddenly in the last _entr'acte_.
Granice, following his glance, recognized the detective from Allonby's
office. For a moment he had the thrilling sense that he was being
shadowed.
