"Trying to get action," Nick Inwood laughed, as he nodded assent to
the dealer.  "I was going down to the A. C. store, but now I guess
I'll stay and watch you do your worst."
This Lawrence Pentfield did at the end of two hours' plunging, when
the dealer bit the end off a fresh cigar and struck a match as he
announced that the bank was broken.  Pentfield cashed in for forty
thousand, shook hands with Nick Inwood, and stated that it was the
last time he would ever play at his game or at anybody's else's.
No one knew nor guessed that he had been hit, much less hit hard.
There was no apparent change in his manner.  For a week he went
about his work much as he had always done, when he read an account
of the marriage in a Portland paper.  Then he called in a friend to
take charge of his mine and departed up the Yukon behind his dogs.
He held to the Salt Water trail till White River was reached, into
which he turned.  Five days later he came upon a hunting camp of
the White River Indians.  In the evening there was a feast, and he
sat in honour beside the chief; and next morning he headed his dogs
back toward the Yukon.  But he no longer travelled alone.  A young
squaw fed his dogs for him that night and helped to pitch camp.
She had been mauled by a bear in her childhood and suffered from a
slight limp.  Her name was Lashka, and she was diffident at first
with the strange white man that had come out of the Unknown,
married her with scarcely a look or word, and now was carrying her
back with him into the Unknown.
But Lashka's was better fortune than falls to most Indian girls
that mate with white men in the Northland.  No sooner was Dawson
reached than the barbaric marriage that had joined them was re-
solemnized, in the white man's fashion, before a priest.  From
Dawson, which to her was all a marvel and a dream, she was taken
directly to the Bonanza claim and installed in the square-hewed
cabin on the hill.
The nine days' wonder that followed arose not so much out of the
fact of the squaw whom Lawrence Pentfield had taken to bed and
board as out of the ceremony that had legalized the tie.  The
properly sanctioned marriage was the one thing that passed the
community's comprehension.  But no one bothered Pentfield about it.
So long as a man's vagaries did no special hurt to the community,
the community let the man alone, nor was Pentfield barred from the
cabins of men who possessed white wives.  The marriage ceremony
removed him from the status of squaw-man and placed him beyond
moral reproach, though there were men that challenged his taste
where women were concerned.
No more letters arrived from the outside.  Six sledloads of mails
had been lost at the Big Salmon.  Besides, Pentfield knew that
Corry and his bride must by that time have started in over the
trail.  They were even then on their honeymoon trip--the honeymoon
trip he had dreamed of for himself through two dreary years.  His
lip curled with bitterness at the thought; but beyond being kinder
to Lashka he gave no sign.
