One day I saw a prisoner, who had undergone his punishment, take leave
of his comrades. He had had twenty years' hard labour. More than one
convict remembered seeing him arrive, quite young, careless, thinking
neither of his crime nor of his punishment. He was now an old man with
gray hairs, with a sad and morose countenance. He walked in silence
through our six barracks. When he entered each of them he prayed before
the holy image, made a deep bow to his former companions, and begged
them not to keep a bad recollection of him.
I also remember one evening, a prisoner, who had been formerly a
well-to-do Siberian peasant, so called. Six years before he had had news
of his wife's remarrying, which had caused him great pain. That very
evening she had come to the prison, and had asked for him in order to
make him a present! They talked together for two minutes, wept together,
and then separated never to meet again. I saw the expression of this
prisoner's countenance when he re-entered the barracks. There, indeed,
one learns to support everything.
When darkness set in we had to re-enter the barrack, where we were shut
up for all the night. It was always painful for me to leave the
court-yard for the barrack. Think of a long, low, stifling room,
scarcely lighted by tallow candles, and full of heavy and disgusting
odours. I cannot now understand how I lived there for ten entire years.
My camp bedstead was made of three boards. This was the only place in
the room that belonged to me. In one single room we herded together,
more than thirty men. It was, above all, no wonder that we were shut up
early. Four hours at least passed before every one was asleep, and,
until then, there was a tumult and uproar of laughter, oaths, rattling
of chains, a poisonous vapour of thick smoke; a confusion of shaved
heads, stigmatised foreheads, and ragged clothes disgustingly filthy.
Yes, man is a pliable animal--he must be so defined--a being who gets
accustomed to everything! That would be, perhaps, the best definition
that could be given of him. There were altogether two hundred and fifty
of us in the same prison. This number was almost invariably the same.
Whenever some of them had undergone their punishment, other criminals
arrived, and a few of them died. Among them there were all sorts of
people. I believe that each region of Russia had furnished its
representatives. There were foreigners there, and even mountaineers from
the Caucasus.
All these people were divided into different classes, according to the
importance of the crime; and consequently the duration of the punishment
for the crime, whatever it might be, was there represented. The
population of the prison was composed for the most part of men condemned
to hard labour of the civil class--"strongly condemned," as the
prisoners used to say. They were criminals deprived of all civil rights,
men rejected by society, vomited forth by it, and whose faces were
marked by the iron to testify eternally to their disgrace. They were
incarcerated for different periods of time, varying from eight to ten
years. At the expiration of their punishment they were sent to the
Siberian districts in the character of colonists.
