In this condition we lived upwards of a year, but all of us began to be
very much tired of it, and, whatever came of it, resolved to attempt
an escape. We had furnished ourselves with no less than three very
good canoes; and as the monsoons, or trade-winds, generally affect that
country, blowing in most parts of this island one six months of a year
one way, and the other six months another way, we concluded we might be
able to bear the sea well enough. But always, when we came to look into
it, the want of fresh water was the thing that put us off from such an
adventure, for it is a prodigious length, and what no man on earth could
be able to perform without water to drink.
Being thus prevailed upon by our own reason to set the thoughts of that
voyage aside, we had then but two things before us; one was, to put to
sea the other way; viz., west, and go away for the Cape of Good Hope,
where, first or last, we should meet with some of our own country ships,
or else to put for the mainland of Africa, and either travel by land,
or sail along the coast towards the Red Sea, where we should, first or
last, find a ship of some nation or other, that would take us up; or
perhaps we might take them up, which, by-the-bye, was the thing that
always ran in my head.
It was our ingenious cutler, whom ever after we called silversmith, that
proposed this; but the gunner told him, that he had been in the Red Sea
in a Malabar sloop, and he knew this, that if we went into the Red Sea,
we should either be killed by the wild Arabs, or taken and made slaves
of by the Turks; and therefore he was not for going that way.
Upon this I took occasion to put in my vote again. "Why," said I, "do we
talk of being killed by the Arabs, or made slaves of by the Turks? Are
we not able to board almost any vessel we shall meet with in those seas;
and, instead of their taking us, we to take them?" "Well done, pirate,"
said the gunner (he that had looked in my hand, and told me I should
come to the gallows), "I'll say that for him," says he, "he always looks
the same way. But I think, of my conscience, it is our only way now."
"Don't tell me," says I, "of being a pirate; we must be pirates, or
anything, to get fairly out of this cursed place."
In a word, they concluded all, by my advice, that our business was to
cruise for anything we could see. "Why then," said I to them, "our first
business is to see if the people upon this island have no navigation,
and what boats they use; and, if they have any better or bigger than
ours, let us take one of them." First, indeed, all our aim was to get,
if possible, a boat with a deck and a sail; for then we might have saved
our provisions, which otherwise we could not.
