Surely, Amherst argued, Mrs. Westmore must feel this; must feel it all
the more keenly, coming from an atmosphere so different, from a life
where, as he instinctively divined, all was in harmony with her own
graceful person. But a deep disappointment awaited him. He was still
under the spell of their last moments in the carriage, when her face and
voice had promised so much, when she had seemed so deeply, if vaguely,
stirred by his appeal. But as they passed from one resounding room to
the other--from the dull throb of the carding-room, the groan of the
ply-frames, the long steady pound of the slashers, back to the angry
shriek of the fierce unappeasable looms--the light faded from her eyes
and she looked merely bewildered and stunned.
Amherst, hardened to the din of the factory, could not measure its
effect on nerves accustomed to the subdued sounds and spacious
stillnesses which are the last refinement of luxury. Habit had made him
unconscious of that malicious multiplication and subdivision of noise
that kept every point of consciousness vibrating to a different note, so
that while one set of nerves was torn as with pincers by the dominant
scream of the looms, others were thrilled with a separate pain by the
ceaseless accompaniment of drumming, hissing, grating and crashing that
shook the great building. Amherst felt this tumult only as part of the
atmosphere of the mills; and to ears trained like his own he could make
his voice heard without difficulty. But his attempts at speech were
unintelligible to Mrs. Westmore and her companions, and after vainly
trying to communicate with him by signs they hurried on as if to escape
as quickly as possible from the pursuing whirlwind.
Amherst could not allow for the depressing effect of this enforced
silence. He did not see that if Bessy could have questioned him the
currents of sympathy might have remained open between them, whereas,
compelled to walk in silence through interminable ranks of meaningless
machines, to which the human workers seemed mere automatic appendages,
she lost all perception of what the scene meant. He had forgotten, too,
that the swift apprehension of suffering in others is as much the result
of training as the immediate perception of beauty. Both perceptions may
be inborn, but if they are not they can be developed only through the
discipline of experience.
"That girl in the hospital would have seen it all," he reflected, as the
vision of Miss Brent's small incisive profile rose before him; but the
next moment he caught the light on Mrs. Westmore's hair, as she bent
above a card, and the paler image faded like a late moon in the sunrise.
Meanwhile Mrs. Ansell, seeing that the detailed inspection of the
buildings was as trying to Mr. Langhope's lameness as to his daughter's
nerves, had proposed to turn back with him and drive to Mrs. Amherst's,
where he might leave her to call while the others were completing their
rounds. It was one of Mrs. Ansell's gifts to detect the first symptoms
of _ennui_ in her companions, and produce a remedy as patly as old
ladies whisk out a scent-bottle or a cough-lozenge; and Mr. Langhope's
look of relief showed the timeliness of her suggestion.
