At last they put new irons on me. While they were being soldered a
number of young women, selling little white loaves, came into the forge
one after another. They were, for the most part, quite little girls who
came to sell the loaves that their mothers had baked. As they got older
they still continued to hang about us, but they no longer brought bread.
There were always some of them about. There were also married women.
Each roll cost two kopecks. Nearly all the prisoners used to have them.
I noticed a prisoner who worked as a carpenter. He was already getting
gray, but he had a ruddy, smiling complexion. He was joking with the
vendors of rolls. Before they arrived he had tied a red handkerchief
round his neck. A fat woman, much marked with the small-pox, put down
her basket on the carpenter's table. They began to talk.
"Why did you not come yesterday?" said the convict, with a
self-satisfied smile.
"I did come; but you had gone," replied the woman boldly.
"Yes; they made us go away, otherwise we should have met. The day before
yesterday they all came to see me."
"Who came?"
"Why, Mariashka, Khavroshka, Tchekunda, Dougrochva" (the woman of four
kopecks).
"What," I said to Akimitch, "is it possible that----?"
"Yes; it happens sometimes," he replied, lowering his eyes, for he was a
very proper man.
Yes; it happened sometimes, but rarely, and with unheard of
difficulties. The convicts preferred to spend their money in drink. It
was very difficult to meet these women. It was necessary to come to an
agreement about the place, and the time; to arrange a meeting, to find
solitude, and, what was most difficult of all, to avoid the
escorts--almost an impossibility--and to spend relatively prodigious
sums. I have sometimes, however, witnessed love scenes. One day three of
us were heating a brick-kiln on the banks of the Irtitch. The soldiers
of the escort were good-natured fellows. Two "blowers" (they were
so-called) soon appeared.
"Where were you staying so long?" said a prisoner to them, who had
evidently been expecting them. "Was it at the Zvierkoffs that you were
detained?"
"At the Zvierkoffs? It will be fine weather, and the fowls will have
teeth, when I go to see them," replied one of the women.
She was the dirtiest woman imaginable. She was called Tchekunda, and had
arrived in company with her friend, the "four kopecks," who was beneath
all description.
"It's a long time since we have seen anything of you," says the gallant
to her of the four kopecks; "you seem to have grown thinner."
"Perhaps; formerly I was good-looking and plump, whereas now one might
fancy I had swallowed eels."
"And you still run after the soldiers, is that so?"
"All calumny on the part of wicked people; and after all, if I was to be
flogged to death for it, I like soldiers."
"Never mind your soldiers, we're the people to love; we have money."
