"Faith, so she does. I wish Tavie's birds had voices like Mrs.
Snowdon's; their squalling annoys me intensely."
"I rather like it, for it is honest, and no malice or mischief is hidden
behind it. I always distrust those smooth, sweet voices; they are
insincere. I like a full, clear tone; sharp, if you please, but decided
and true."
"Well said, Octavia. I agree with you, and your own is a perfect sample
of the kind you describe." And Treherne smiled as he rolled by to join
Mrs. Snowdon, who evidently waited for him, while Octavia turned to her
brother to defend her pets.
"Are you sure? How did you discover?" said Maurice, affecting to admire
the lady's bouquet, as he paused beside her.
"I suspected it the moment I saw her this morning. She is no actress;
and dislike, distrust, and contempt were visible in her face when we
met. Till you so cleverly told me my note was lost, I fancied she was
disturbed about her brother--or you."
A sudden pause and a keen glance followed the last softly uttered
word, but Treherne met it with an inscrutable smile and a quiet "Well,
what next?"
"The moment I learned that you did not get the note I was sure she had
it, and, knowing that she must have seen me put it there, in spite of
her apparent innocence, I quietly asked her for it. This surprised her,
this robbed the affair of any mystery, and I finished her perplexity by
sending it to the major the moment she returned it to me, as if it had
been intended for him. She begged pardon, said her brother was
thoughtless, and she watched over him lest he should get into mischief;
professed to think I meant the line for him, and behaved like a charming
simpleton, as she is."
"Quite a tumult about nothing. Poor little Tavie! You doubtlessly
frightened her so that we may safely correspond hereafter."
"You may give me an answer, now and here."
"Very well, meet me on the terrace tomorrow morning; the peacocks will
make the meeting natural enough. I usually loiter away an hour or two
there, in the sunny part of the day."
"But the girl?"
"I'll send her away."
"You speak as if it would be an easy thing to do."
"It will, both easy and pleasant."
"Now you are mysterious or uncomplimentary. You either care nothing for
a tete-a-tete with her, or you will gladly send her out of my way.
Which is it?"
"You shall decide. Can I have this?"
She looked at him as he touched a rose with a warning glance, for the
flower was both an emblem of love and of silence. Did he mean to hint
that he recalled the past, or to warn her that someone was near? She
leaned from the shadow of the curtain where she sat, and caught a
glimpse of a shadow gliding away.
"Who was it?" she asked, below her breath.
