--_Statement of Rudolph Heckler._
Here follows the excerpts from the manuscript, made and arranged by
Rudolph Heckler:
I never killed my brother. Let this be my first word and my last. Why
should I kill him? We lived together in unbroken harmony for twenty
years. We were old men, and the fires and tempers of youth had long
since burned out. We never disagreed even over the most trivial things.
Never was there such amity as ours. We were scholars. We cared nothing
for the outside world. Our companionship and our books were
all-satisfying. Never were there such talks as we held. Many a night we
have sat up till two and three in the morning, conversing, weighing
opinions and judgments, referring to authorities--in short, we lived at
high and friendly intellectual altitudes.
       *       *       *       *       *
He disappeared. I suffered a great shock. Why should he have
disappeared? Where could he have gone? It was very strange. I was
stunned. They say I was very sick for weeks. It was brain fever. This
was caused by his inexplicable disappearance. It was at the beginning of
the experience I hope here to relate, that he disappeared.
How I have endeavoured to find him. I am not an excessively rich man,
yet have I offered continually increasing rewards. I have advertised in
all the papers, and sought the aid of all the detective bureaus. At the
present moment, the rewards I have out aggregate over fifty thousand
dollars.
       *       *       *       *       *
They say he was murdered. They also say murder will out. Then I say, why
does not his murder come out? Who did it? Where is he? Where is Jim? My
Jim?
       *       *       *       *       *
We were so happy together. He had a remarkable mind, a most remarkable
mind, so firmly founded, so widely informed, so rigidly logical, that it
was not at all strange that we agreed in all things. Dissension was
unknown between us. Jim was the most truthful man I have ever met. In
this, too, we were similar, as we were similar in our intellectual
honesty. We never sacrificed truth to make a point. We had no points to
make, we so thoroughly agreed. It is absurd to think that we could
disagree on anything under the sun.
       *       *       *       *       *
I wish he would come back. Why did he go? Who can ever explain it? I am
lonely now, and depressed with grave forebodings--frightened by terrors
that are of the mind and that put at naught all that my mind has ever
conceived. Form is mutable. This is the last word of positive science.
The dead do not come back. This is incontrovertible. The dead are dead,
and that is the end of it, and of them. And yet I have had experiences
here--here, in this very room, at this very desk, that--But wait. Let me
put it down in black and white, in words simple and unmistakable. Let me
ask some questions. Who mislays my pen? That is what I desire to know.
Who uses up my ink so rapidly? Not I. And yet the ink goes.
