   [Footnote 51: "Salted barley meal,"--Anthon; "whole
   barley,"--Voss; but Buttmann, Lexil. p. 454, in a highly amusing
   note, observes, "no supposition of a regular and constant
   distinction between the Greeks and Romans, the one using barley
   whole and the other coarsely ground, possible as the thing may
   be in itself, is to be entertained without the express testimony
   of the ancients."]
"Hear me, O thou of the silver bow, who art wont to protect Chrysa and
divine Cilla, and who mightily rulest over Tenedos! already indeed at a
former time didst thou hear me praying, and didst honour me, and didst
very much afflict the people of the Greeks, now also accomplish for me
this further request: even now avert from the Greeks this unseemly
pestilence."
Thus he spoke praying, and him Phoebus Apollo heard. But after they had
prayed, and sprinkled the pounded barley, they first bent back [the neck
of the victims], killed them, and flayed them, and cut out the thighs,
and wrapped them round with the fat, having arranged it in double folds;
then laid the raw flesh upon them. Then the old man burned them on
billets, and poured sparkling wine upon them; and near him the youths
held five-pronged spits in their hands. But after the thighs were
roasted, and they had tasted the entrails, they then cut the rest of
them into small pieces, and fixed them on spits, and roasted them
skilfully, and drew all the viands [off the spits].
But when they had ceased from their labour, and had prepared the
banquet, they feasted; nor did their soul in anywise lack a due
allowance of the feast: but when they had dismissed the desire of drink
and food, the youths on the one hand filled the goblets with wine to the
brim,[52] and handed round the wine to all, having poured the first of
the wine into the cups.[53] But the Grecian youths throughout the day
were appeasing the god by song, chanting the joyous Paean,[54] hymning
the Far-darter, and he was delighted in his mind as he listened. But
when the sun had set, and darkness came on, then they slept near the
hawsers of their ships. But when the mother of dawn,[55] rosy-fingered
morning, appeared, straightway then they set sail for the spacious camp
of the Achaeans, and to them far-darting Apollo sent a favourable gale.
But they erected the mast and expanded the white sails. The wind
streamed[56] into the bosom of the sail; and as the vessel briskly ran,
the dark wave roared loudly around the keel; but she scudded through the
wave, holding on her way. But when they reached the wide armament of the
Greeks, they drew up the black ship on the continent, far upon the sand,
and stretched long props under it; but they dispersed themselves through
their tents and ships.
   [Footnote 52: See Buttm. Lexil. p. 291, sqq. The custom of
   crowning the goblets with flowers was of later origin.]
   [Footnote 53: See Battm. p. 168. The customary libation is
   meant.]
