Mr. Tetterby seemed to dislike this figure of speech, and observed, “Say
than the baby, my dear.”
“—Had no more idea than the baby,” said Mrs. Tetterby.—“Johnny, don’t
look at me, but look at her, or she’ll fall out of your lap and be
killed, and then you’ll die in agonies of a broken heart, and serve you
right.—No more idea I hadn’t than that darling, of being cross when I
came home; but somehow, ’Dolphus—”  Mrs. Tetterby paused, and again
turned her wedding-ring round and round upon her finger.
“I see!” said Mr. Tetterby.  “I understand!  My little woman was put out.
Hard times, and hard weather, and hard work, make it trying now and then.
I see, bless your soul!  No wonder!  Dolf, my man,” continued Mr.
Tetterby, exploring the basin with a fork, “here’s your mother been and
bought, at the cook’s shop, besides pease pudding, a whole knuckle of a
lovely roast leg of pork, with lots of crackling left upon it, and with
seasoning gravy and mustard quite unlimited.  Hand in your plate, my boy,
and begin while it’s simmering.”
Master Adolphus, needing no second summons, received his portion with
eyes rendered moist by appetite, and withdrawing to his particular stool,
fell upon his supper tooth and nail.  Johnny was not forgotten, but
received his rations on bread, lest he should, in a flush of gravy,
trickle any on the baby.  He was required, for similar reasons, to keep
his pudding, when not on active service, in his pocket.
There might have been more pork on the knucklebone,—which knucklebone the
carver at the cook’s shop had assuredly not forgotten in carving for
previous customers—but there was no stint of seasoning, and that is an
accessory dreamily suggesting pork, and pleasantly cheating the sense of
taste.  The pease pudding, too, the gravy and mustard, like the Eastern
rose in respect of the nightingale, if they were not absolutely pork, had
lived near it; so, upon the whole, there was the flavour of a
middle-sized pig.  It was irresistible to the Tetterbys in bed, who,
though professing to slumber peacefully, crawled out when unseen by their
parents, and silently appealed to their brothers for any gastronomic
token of fraternal affection.  They, not hard of heart, presenting scraps
in return, it resulted that a party of light skirmishers in nightgowns
were careering about the parlour all through supper, which harassed Mr.
Tetterby exceedingly, and once or twice imposed upon him the necessity of
a charge, before which these guerilla troops retired in all directions
and in great confusion.
Mrs. Tetterby did not enjoy her supper.  There seemed to be something on
Mrs. Tetterby’s mind.  At one time she laughed without reason, and at
another time she cried without reason, and at last she laughed and cried
together in a manner so very unreasonable that her husband was
confounded.
“My little woman,” said Mr. Tetterby, “if the world goes that way, it
appears to go the wrong way, and to choke you.”
