True. The bull, pausing where the last one had died, was smelling the
wet sand and snorting. Again he ran around the ring, with raised head,
looking at the faces of the thousands that hissed him, that threw
orange-peel at him and called him names. But the smell of blood decided
him, and he charged a capador, so without warning that the man just
escaped. He dropped his cape and dodged into the shelter. The bull
struck the wall of the ring with a crash. And John Harned said, in a
quiet voice, as though he talked to himself:
"I will give one thousand sucres to the lazar-house of Quito if a bull
kills a man this day."
"You like bulls?" said Maria Valenzuela with a smile.
"I like such men less," said John Harned. "A toreador is not a brave
man. He surely cannot be a brave man. See, the bull's tongue is already
out. He is tired and he has not yet begun."
"It is the water," said Luis Cervallos.
"Yes, it is the water," said John Harned. "Would it not be safer to
hamstring the bull before he comes on?"
Maria Valenzuela was made angry by this sneer in John Harned's words.
But Luis Cervallos smiled so that only I could see him, and then it
broke upon my mind surely the game he was playing. He and I were to be
banderilleros. The big American bull was there in the box with us. We
were to stick the darts in him till he became angry, and then there
might be no marriage with Maria Valenzuela. It was a good sport. And the
spirit of bull-fighters was in our blood.
The bull was now angry and excited. The capadors had great game with
him. He was very quick, and sometimes he turned with such sharpness
that his hind legs lost their footing and he plowed the sand with his
quarter. But he charged always the flung capes and committed no harm.
"He has no chance," said John Harned. "He is fighting wind."
"He thinks the cape is his enemy," explained Maria Valenzuela. "See how
cleverly the capador deceives him."
"It is his nature to be deceived," said John Harned. "Wherefore he is
doomed to fight wind. The toreadors know it, you know it, I know it--we
all know from the first that he will fight wind. He only does not know
it. It is his stupid beast-nature. He has no chance."
"It is very simple," said Luis Cervallos. "The bull shuts his eyes when
he charges. Therefore--"
"The man steps, out of the way and the bull rushes by," Harned
interrupted.
"Yes," said Luis Cervallos; "that is it. The bull shuts his eyes, and
the man knows it."
"But cows do not shut their eyes," said John Harned. "I know a cow at
home that is a Jersey and gives milk, that would whip the whole gang of
them."
"But the toreadors do not fight cows," said I.
