Turning the earnest face up to her own, Lady Treherne whispered
anxiously, "Has Maurice ever looked or hinted anything of love during
this year he has been with us, and you his constant companion?"
"Never, Mamma; he is too honorable and too unhappy to speak or think of
that. I am his little nurse, sister, and friend, no more, nor ever shall
be. Do not suspect us, or put such fears into my mind, else all our
comfort will be spoiled."
Flushed and eager was the girl, but her clear eyes betrayed no tender
confusion as she spoke, and all her thought seemed to be to clear her
cousin from the charge of loving her too well. Lady Treherne looked
relieved, paused a moment, then said, seriously but gently, "This is
well, but, child, I charge you tell me at once, if ever he forgets
himself, for this thing cannot be. Once I hoped it might, now it is
impossible; remember that he continue a friend and cousin, nothing more.
I warn you in time, but if you neglect the warning, Maurice must go. No
more of this; recollect my wish regarding Mr. Annon, and let your cousin
amuse himself without you in public."
"Mamma, do you wish me to like Frank Annon?"
The abrupt question rather disturbed my lady, but knowing her daughter's
frank, impetuous nature, she felt somewhat relieved by this candor, and
answered decidedly, "I do. He is your equal in all respects; he loves
you, Jasper desires it, I approve, and you, being heart-whole, can have
no just objection to the alliance."
"Has he spoken to you?"
"No, to your brother."
"You wish this much, Mamma?"
"Very much, my child."
"I will try to please you, then." And stifling a sigh, the girl kissed
her mother with unwonted meekness in tone and manner.
"Now I am well pleased. Be happy, my love. No one will urge or distress
you. Let matters take their course, and if this hope of ours can be
fulfilled, I shall be relieved of the chief care of my life."
A sound of girlish voices here broke on their ears, and springing up,
Octavia hurried to meet her friends, exclaiming joyfully, "They have
come! they have come!"
Two smiling, blooming girls met her at the door, and, being at an
enthusiastic age, they gushed in girlish fashion for several minutes,
making a pretty group as they stood in each other's arms, all talking at
once, with frequent kisses and little bursts of laughter, as vents for
their emotion. Madame Mere welcomed them and then went to join Mrs.
Snowdon, leaving the trio to gossip unrestrained.
"My dearest creature, I thought we never should get here, for Papa had a
tiresome dinner party, and we were obliged to stay, you know," cried
Rose, the lively sister, shaking out the pretty dress and glancing at
herself in the mirror as she fluttered about the room like a butterfly.
"We were dying to come, and so charmed when you asked us, for we haven't
seen you this age, darling," added Blanche, the pensive one, smoothing
her blond curls after a fresh embrace.
