What gives interest and distinction to Appian's translation as a
probable source for material in _Julius Caesar_ is that in it we have
speeches by Antony, Brutus, and Lepidus at the time of the reading of
Caesar's will. In this translation Antony's first speech begins, "They
that would have voices tried upon Caesar must know afore that if he
ruled as an officer lawfully chosen, then all his acts and decrees must
stand in force...." On Antony's second speech the comment is, "Thus
wrought Antony artificially." His speech to the Senate begins, "Silence
being commanded, he said thus, 'Of the citizens offenders (you men of
equal honour) in this your consultation I have said nothing....'" The
speech of Lepidus to the people has this setting: "When he was come to
the place of speech he lamented, weeping, and thus said, 'Here I was
yesterday with Caesar, and now am I here to inquire of Caesar's
death.... Caesar is gone from us, an holy and honourable man in deed.'"
The effect of this speech is commented on as follows: "Handling the
matter thus craftily, the hired men, knowing that he was ambitious,
praised him and exhorted him to take the office of Caesar's priesthood."
A long speech by Brutus follows the reading of Caesar's will. It begins:
"Now, O citizens, we be here with you that yesterday were in the common
court not as men fleeing to the temple that have done amiss, nor as to a
fort, having committed all we have to you.... We have heard what hath
been objected against us of our enemies, touching the oath and touching
cause of doubt...." The effect of this speech is thus described: "Whiles
Brutus thus spake, all the hearers considering with themselves that he
spake nothing but right, did like them well, and as men of courage and
lovers of the people, had them in great admiration and were turned into
their favour."
3. _Earlier Plays._ As already mentioned, England had plays on the
subject of Julius Caesar from the first years of Elizabeth's reign. As
not one of these earlier plays is extant, there can be no certainty as
to whether Shakespeare drew upon them for materials or inspiration, but,
as Professor Herford says, "he seems to be cognisant of their
existence." His opening scene is addressed to a public familiar with the
history of Pompey and Pompey's sons. Among these earlier plays was one
almost contemporary with the first production of _Gorboduc_, the first
English tragedy. It is referred to under the name of _Julyus Sesar_ in
an entry in Machyn's _Diary_ under February 1, 1562. In _Plays confuted
in five Actions_, printed probably in 1582, Stephen Gosson mentions the
history of _Caesar and Pompey_ as a contemporary play. A Latin play on
Caesar's death was acted at Oxford in 1582, and for it Dr. Richard Eedes
(Eades, Edes) of Christ Church wrote the epilogue (_Epilogus Caesaris
Intersecti_). In Henslowe's _Diary_ under November 8, 1594, a _Seser and
pompie_ is mentioned as a new play. Mr. A. W. Verity (_Julius Caesar_,
The Pitt Press edition) makes the interesting suggestion that in III, i,
111-116, there may be an allusion to these earlier plays. Cf. also
_Hamlet_, III, ii, 107-111, quoted below.
