The keen look that had been fixed upon him with so much earnestness, had
gradually sought the ground.
“When my circumstances got to be not so good as formerly, through not
being honestly dealt by, and I first come here to be custodian,” said the
old man, “—which was upwards of fifty years ago—where’s my son William?
More than half a century ago, William!”
“That’s what I say, father,” replied the son, as promptly and dutifully
as before, “that’s exactly where it is.  Two times ought’s an ought, and
twice five ten, and there’s a hundred of ’em.”
“It was quite a pleasure to know that one of our founders—or more
correctly speaking,” said the old man, with a great glory in his subject
and his knowledge of it, “one of the learned gentlemen that helped endow
us in Queen Elizabeth’s time, for we were founded afore her day—left in
his will, among the other bequests he made us, so much to buy holly, for
garnishing the walls and windows, come Christmas.  There was something
homely and friendly in it.  Being but strange here, then, and coming at
Christmas time, we took a liking for his very picter that hangs in what
used to be, anciently, afore our ten poor gentlemen commuted for an
annual stipend in money, our great Dinner Hall.—A sedate gentleman in a
peaked beard, with a ruff round his neck, and a scroll below him, in old
English letters, ‘Lord! keep my memory green!’  You know all about him,
Mr. Redlaw?”
“I know the portrait hangs there, Philip.”
“Yes, sure, it’s the second on the right, above the panelling.  I was
going to say—he has helped to keep _my_ memory green, I thank him; for
going round the building every year, as I’m a doing now, and freshening
up the bare rooms with these branches and berries, freshens up my bare
old brain.  One year brings back another, and that year another, and
those others numbers!  At last, it seems to me as if the birth-time of
our Lord was the birth-time of all I have ever had affection for, or
mourned for, or delighted in,—and they’re a pretty many, for I’m
eighty-seven!”
“Merry and happy,” murmured Redlaw to himself.
The room began to darken strangely.
“So you see, sir,” pursued old Philip, whose hale wintry cheek had warmed
into a ruddier glow, and whose blue eyes had brightened while he spoke,
“I have plenty to keep, when I keep this present season.  Now, where’s my
quiet Mouse?  Chattering’s the sin of my time of life, and there’s half
the building to do yet, if the cold don’t freeze us first, or the wind
don’t blow us away, or the darkness don’t swallow us up.”
The quiet Mouse had brought her calm face to his side, and silently taken
his arm, before he finished speaking.
“Come away, my dear,” said the old man.  “Mr. Redlaw won’t settle to his
dinner, otherwise, till it’s cold as the winter.  I hope you’ll excuse me
rambling on, sir, and I wish you good night, and, once again, a merry—”
