CHAPTER III
Wolf Larsen ceased swearing as suddenly as he had begun.  He relighted
his cigar and glanced around.  His eyes chanced upon the cook.
"Well, Cooky?" he began, with a suaveness that was cold and of the temper
of steel.
"Yes, sir," the cook eagerly interpolated, with appeasing and apologetic
servility.
"Don't you think you've stretched that neck of yours just about enough?
It's unhealthy, you know.  The mate's gone, so I can't afford to lose you
too.  You must be very, very careful of your health, Cooky.  Understand?"
His last word, in striking contrast with the smoothness of his previous
utterance, snapped like the lash of a whip.  The cook quailed under it.
"Yes, sir," was the meek reply, as the offending head disappeared into
the galley.
At this sweeping rebuke, which the cook had only pointed, the rest of the
crew became uninterested and fell to work at one task or another.  A
number of men, however, who were lounging about a companion-way between
the galley and hatch, and who did not seem to be sailors, continued
talking in low tones with one another.  These, I afterward learned, were
the hunters, the men who shot the seals, and a very superior breed to
common sailor-folk.
"Johansen!" Wolf Larsen called out.  A sailor stepped forward obediently.
"Get your palm and needle and sew the beggar up.  You'll find some old
canvas in the sail-locker.  Make it do."
"What'll I put on his feet, sir?" the man asked, after the customary "Ay,
ay, sir."
"We'll see to that," Wolf Larsen answered, and elevated his voice in a
call of "Cooky!"
Thomas Mugridge popped out of his galley like a jack-in-the-box.
"Go below and fill a sack with coal."
"Any of you fellows got a Bible or Prayer-book?" was the captain's next
demand, this time of the hunters lounging about the companion-way.
They shook their heads, and some one made a jocular remark which I did
not catch, but which raised a general laugh.
Wolf Larsen made the same demand of the sailors.  Bibles and Prayer-books
seemed scarce articles, but one of the men volunteered to pursue the
quest amongst the watch below, returning in a minute with the information
that there was none.
The captain shrugged his shoulders.  "Then we'll drop him over without
any palavering, unless our clerical-looking castaway has the burial
service at sea by heart."
By this time he had swung fully around and was facing me.  "You're a
preacher, aren't you?" he asked.
The hunters,--there were six of them,--to a man, turned and regarded me.
I was painfully aware of my likeness to a scarecrow.  A laugh went up at
my appearance,--a laugh that was not lessened or softened by the dead man
stretched and grinning on the deck before us; a laugh that was as rough
and harsh and frank as the sea itself; that arose out of coarse feelings
and blunted sensibilities, from natures that knew neither courtesy nor
gentleness.
Wolf Larsen did not laugh, though his grey eyes lighted with a slight
glint of amusement; and in that moment, having stepped forward quite
close to him, I received my first impression of the man himself, of the
man as apart from his body, and from the torrent of blasphemy I had heard
him spew forth.  The face, with large features and strong lines, of the
square order, yet well filled out, was apparently massive at first sight;
but again, as with the body, the massiveness seemed to vanish, and a
conviction to grow of a tremendous and excessive mental or spiritual
strength that lay behind, sleeping in the deeps of his being.  The jaw,
the chin, the brow rising to a goodly height and swelling heavily above
the eyes,--these, while strong in themselves, unusually strong, seemed to
speak an immense vigour or virility of spirit that lay behind and beyond
and out of sight.  There was no sounding such a spirit, no measuring, no
determining of metes and bounds, nor neatly classifying in some
pigeon-hole with others of similar type.
