As she talked, Billy followed her solemnly, his eyes steadily turned on
hers.
"Never heard of them," he confessed. "Did they live anywhere around
here?"
She laughed.
"No. They lived in England. They were the first English, and you know
the Americans came from the English. We're Saxons, you an' me, an' Mary,
an' Bert, and all the Americans that are real Americans, you know, and
not Dagoes and Japs and such."
"My folks lived in America a long time," Billy said slowly, digesting
the information she had given and relating himself to it. "Anyway, my
mother's folks did. They crossed to Maine hundreds of years ago."
"My father was 'State of Maine," she broke in, with a little gurgle of
joy. "And my mother was born in Ohio, or where Ohio is now. She used to
call it the Great Western Reserve. What was your father?"
"Don't know." Billy shrugged his shoulders. "He didn't know himself.
Nobody ever knew, though he was American, all right, all right."
"His name's regular old American," Saxon suggested. "There's a big
English general right now whose name is Roberts. I've read it in the
papers."
"But Roberts wasn't my father's name. He never knew what his name was.
Roberts was the name of a gold-miner who adopted him. You see, it was
this way. When they was Indian-fightin' up there with the Modoc Indians,
a lot of the miners an' settlers took a hand. Roberts was captain of one
outfit, and once, after a fight, they took a lot of prisoners--squaws,
an' kids an' babies. An' one of the kids was my father. They figured he
was about five years old. He didn't know nothin' but Indian."
Saxon clapped her hands, and her eyes sparkled: "He'd been captured on
an Indian raid!"
"That's the way they figured it," Billy nodded. "They recollected a
wagon-train of Oregon settlers that'd been killed by the Modocs four
years before. Roberts adopted him, and that's why I don't know his real
name. But you can bank on it, he crossed the plains just the same."
"So did my father," Saxon said proudly.
"An' my mother, too," Billy added, pride touching his own voice.
"Anyway, she came pretty close to crossin' the plains, because she was
born in a wagon on the River Platte on the way out."
"My mother, too," said Saxon. "She was eight years old, an' she walked
most of the way after the oxen began to give out."
Billy thrust out his hand.
"Put her there, kid," he said. "We're just like old friends, what with
the same kind of folks behind us."
With shining eyes, Saxon extended her hand to his, and gravely they
shook.
"Isn't it wonderful?" she murmured. "We're both old American stock. And
if you aren't a Saxon there never was one--your hair, your eyes, your
skin, everything. And you're a fighter, too."
"I guess all our old folks was fighters when it comes to that. It come
natural to 'em, an' dog-gone it, they just had to fight or they'd never
come through."
