  HIORDIS (restraining herself). Well and good; if thou hast sworn
him peace, the vow must be held.
  GUNNAR (forcibly, but without anger). It must and it shall.
  ORNULF (to HIORDIS). Another pact had been well-nigh made ere
thy coming.
  HIORDIS (sharply). Between thee and Gunnar.
  ORNULF (nods). It had to do with thee.
  HIORDIS. Well can I guess what it had to do with; but this I tell
thee, foster-father, never shall it be said that Gunnar let himself
be cowed because thou camest in arms to the isle. Hadst thou come
alone, a single wayfarer, to our hall, the quarrel had more easily
been healed.
  GUNNAR. Ornulf and his sons come in peace.
  HIORDIS. Mayhap; but otherwise will it sound in the mouths of
men; and thou thyself, Gunnar, didst show scant trust in the peace
yesterday, in sending our son Egil to the southland so soon as it
was known that Ornulf's warship lay in the fiord.
  SIGURD (to GUNNAR). Didst thou send thy sons to the south?
  HIORDIS. Ay, that he might be in safety should Ornulf fall upon us.
  ORNULF. Scoff not at that, Hiordis; what Gunnar has done may prove
wise in the end, if so be thou hinderest the pact.
  HIORDIS. Life must take its chance; come what will, I had liever
die than save my life by a shameful pact.
  DAGNY. Sigurd makes atonement, and will not be deemed the lesser
man for that.
  HIORDIS. Sigurd best knows what his own honour can bear.
  SIGURD. On that score shall I never need reminding.
  HIORDIS. Sigurd has done famous deeds, but the boldest deed of all
was Gunnar's, when he slew the white bear that guarded my bower.
  GUNNAR (with an embarrassed glance at SIGURD). Nay nay, no more
of that!
  ORNULF. In truth it was the boldest deed that e'er was seen in
Iceland; and therefore----
  SIGURD. The more easily can Gunnar yield, and not be deemed
a coward.
  HIORDIS. If amends are to be made, amends shall also be craved.
Bethink thee, Gunnar, of thy vow!
  GUNNAR. That vow was ill bethought; wilt thou hold me to it?
  HIORDIS. That will I, if we two are to dwell under one roof after
this day. Know then, Ornulf, that if atonement is to be made for the
carrying away of thy foster-daughter, thou, too, must atone for the
slaying of Jokul my father, and the seizure of his goods and gear.
  ORNULF. Jokul was slain in fair fight;[1] thy kinsmen did me a
worse wrong when they sent thee to Iceland and entrapped me into
adopting[2] thee, unwitting who thou wast.
    [1] "I aerling holmgang." The established form of duel in the
  viking times was to land the combatants on one of the rocky islets
  or "holms" that stud the Norwegian coast, and there let them fight
  it out. Hence "holmgang"=duel.
    [2] "At knaessette"=to knee-set a child, to take it on one's knee,
  an irrevocable form of adoption.
  HIORDIS. Honour, and now wrong, befell thee in adopting
Jokul's daughter.
