  DAGNY (much moved). My brave husband! And that great deed was
thine!--Oh, I should have known it; none but thou would have dared!
Hiordis, that proud and stately woman, couldst thou have won, yet
didst choose me! Now wouldst thou be tenfold dearer to me, wert
thou not already dearer than all the world.
  SIGURD. Dagny, my sweet wife, now thou knowest all--that is needful.
I could not but warn thee; for that ring--Hiordis must never set eyes
on it! Wouldst thou do my will, then cast it from thee--into the
depths of the sea.
  DAGNY. Nay, Sigurd, it is too dear to me; is it not thy gift? But
be thou at ease, I shall hide it from every eye, and never shall I
breathe a word of what thou hast told me.
    (THOROLF comes up from the ships, with SIGURD'S men.)
  THOROLF. All is ready for the feast.
  DAGNY. Come then, Sigurd--my brave, my noble warrior!
  SIGURD. Beware, Dagny--beware! It rests with thee now whether this
meeting shall end peacefully or in bloodshed. (Cheerfully to the
others.) Away then, to the feast in Gunnar's hall!
    (Goes out with DAGNY to the right; the others follow.)
ACT SECOND.
(The feast-room in GUNNAR'S house. The entrance-door is in the back;
  smaller doors in the side-walls. In front, on the left, the greater
  high-seat; opposite it on the right, the lesser. In the middle of the
  floor, a wood fire is burning on a built-up hearth. In the background,
  on both sides of the door, are daises for the women of the household.
  From each of the high-seats, a long table, with benches, stretches
  backwards, parallel with the wall. It is dark outside; the fire
  lights the room.)
    (HIORDIS and DAGNY enter from the right.)
  DAGNY. Nay, Hiordis, I cannot understand thee. Thou hast shown me
all the house; I know not what thing thou lackest, and all thou hast
is fair and goodly;--then why bemoan thy lot?
  HIORDIS. Cage an eagle and it will bite at the wires, be they of
iron or of gold.
  DAGNY. In one thing at least thou art richer than I; thou hast Egil,
thy little son.
  HIORDIS. Better no child, than one born in shame.
  DAGNY. In shame?
  HIORDIS. Dost thou forgot thy father's saying? Egil is the son of
a leman; that was his word.
  DAGNY. A word spoken in wrath--why wilt thou heed it?
  HIORDIS. Nay, nay, Ornulf was right; Egil is weak; one can see he
is no freeborn child.
  DAGNY. Hiordis, how canst thou----?
  HIORDIS (unheeding). Thus is shame sucked into the blood, like the
venom of a snake-bite. Of another mettle are the freeborn sons of
mighty men. I have heard of a queen that took her son and sewed his
kirtle fast to his flesh, yet he never blinked an eye. (With a look
of cruelty.) Dagny, that will I try with Egil!
  DAGNY (horrified). Hiordis, Hiordis!
  HIORDIS (laughing). Ha-ha-ha! Dost thou think I meant my words?
(Changing her tone.) But, believe me or not as thou wilt, there are
times when such deeds seem to lure me; it must run in the blood,--
for I am of the race of the Jotuns,[1] they say.--Come, sit thou here,
Dagny. Far hast thou wandered in these five long years; tell me, thou
hast ofttimes been a guest in the halls of kings?
