The lepers obeyed, crawling away to their lairs in the cliff, until only
Koolau remained, sitting motionless in the moonlight, his rifle across
his knees, as he gazed far down to the boats landing on the beach.
The far head of Kalalau Valley had been well chosen as a refuge.  Except
Kiloliana, who knew back-trails up the precipitous walls, no man could
win to the gorge save by advancing across a knife-edged ridge.  This
passage was a hundred yards in length.  At best, it was a scant twelve
inches wide.  On either side yawned the abyss.  A slip, and to right or
left the man would fall to his death.  But once across he would find
himself in an earthly paradise.  A sea of vegetation laved the landscape,
pouring its green billows from wall to wall, dripping from the cliff-lips
in great vine-masses, and flinging a spray of ferns and air-plants in to
the multitudinous crevices.  During the many months of Koolau's rule, he
and his followers had fought with this vegetable sea.  The choking
jungle, with its riot of blossoms, had been driven back from the bananas,
oranges, and mangoes that grew wild.  In little clearings grew the wild
arrowroot; on stone terraces, filled with soil scrapings, were the _taro_
patches and the melons; and in every open space where the sunshine
penetrated were _papaia_ trees burdened with their golden fruit.
Koolau had been driven to this refuge from the lower valley by the beach.
And if he were driven from it in turn, he knew of gorges among the
jumbled peaks of the inner fastnesses where he could lead his subjects
and live.  And now he lay with his rifle beside him, peering down through
a tangled screen of foliage at the soldiers on the beach.  He noted that
they had large guns with them, from which the sunshine flashed as from
mirrors.  The knife-edged passage lay directly before him.  Crawling
upward along the trail that led to it he could see tiny specks of men.  He
knew they were not the soldiers, but the police.  When they failed, then
the soldiers would enter the game.
He affectionately rubbed a twisted hand along his rifle barrel and made
sure that the sights were clean.  He had learned to shoot as a
wild-cattle hunter on Niihau, and on that island his skill as a marksman
was unforgotten.  As the toiling specks of men grew nearer and larger, he
estimated the range, judged the deflection of the wind that swept at
right angles across the line of fire, and calculated the chances of
overshooting marks that were so far below his level.  But he did not
shoot.  Not until they reached the beginning of the passage did he make
his presence known.  He did not disclose himself, but spoke from the
thicket.
"What do you want?" he demanded.
"We want Koolau, the leper," answered the man who led the native police,
himself a blue-eyed American.
"You must go back," Koolau said.
