In 1863 he somehow succeeded in distinguishing himself; he received a
cross, was promoted to be a non-commissioned officer, and rose
rapidly to the rank of an officer. During this period Varvara Petrovna
despatched perhaps hundreds of letters to the capital, full of prayers
and supplications. She even stooped to some humiliation in this
extremity. After his promotion the young man suddenly resigned his
commission, but he did not come back to Skvoreshniki again, and gave up
writing to his mother altogether. They learned by roundabout means that
he was back in Petersburg, but that he was not to be met in the same
society as before; he seemed to be in hiding. They found out that he was
living in strange company, associating with the dregs of the population
of Petersburg, with slip-shod government clerks, discharged military
men, beggars of the higher class, and drunkards of all sorts--that he
visited their filthy families, spent days and nights in dark slums and
all sorts of low haunts, that he had sunk very low, that he was in rags,
and that apparently he liked it. He did not ask his mother for money,
he had his own little estate--once the property of his father, General
Stavrogin, which yielded at least some revenue, and which, it was
reported, he had let to a German from Saxony. At last his mother
besought him to come to her, and "Prince Harry" made his appearance
in our town. I had never set eyes him before, but now I got a very
distinct impression of him. He was a very handsome young man of
five-and-twenty, and I must own I was impressed by him. I had expected
to see a dirty ragamuffin, sodden with drink and debauchery. He was on
the contrary, the most elegant gentleman I had ever met, extremely well
dressed, with an air and manner only to be found in a man accustomed to
culture and refinement. I was not the only person surprised. It was a
surprise to all the townspeople to whom, of course, young Stavrogin's
whole biography was well known in its minutest details, though one could
not imagine how they had got hold of them, and, what was still more
surprising, half of their stories about him turned out to be true.
All our ladies were wild over the new visitor. They were sharply divided
into two parties, one of which adored him while the other half regarded
him with a hatred that was almost blood-thirsty: but both were crazy
about him. Some of them were particularly fascinated by the idea that he
had perhaps a fateful secret hidden in his soul; others were positively
delighted at the fact that he was a murderer. It appeared too that
he had had a very good education and was indeed a man of considerable
culture. No great acquirements were needed, of course, to astonish us.
But he could judge also of very interesting everyday affairs, and, what
was of the utmost value, he judged of them with remarkable good sense. I
must mention as a peculiar fact that almost from the first day we all of
us thought him a very sensible fellow. He was not very talkative, he was
elegant without exaggeration, surprisingly modest, and at the same time
bold and self-reliant, as none of us were. Our dandies gazed at him with
envy, and were completely eclipsed by him. His face, too, impressed me.
His hair was of a peculiarly intense black, his light-coloured eyes were
peculiarly light and calm, his complexion was peculiarly soft and white,
the red in his cheeks was too bright and clear, his teeth were like
pearls, and his lips like coral--one would have thought that he must
be a paragon of beauty, yet at the same time there seemed something
repellent about him. It was said that his face suggested a mask; so much
was said though, among other things they talked of his extraordinary
physical strength. He was rather tall. Varvara Petrovna looked at him
with pride, yet with continual uneasiness. He spent about six months
among us--listless, quiet, rather morose. He made his appearance in
society, and with unfailing propriety performed all the duties demanded
by our provincial etiquette. He was related, on his father's side, to
the governor, and was received by the latter as a near kinsman. But a
few months passed and the wild beast showed his claws.
