By Mr. Sapsea's side on the table are a writing-desk and writing
materials.  Glancing at a scrap of manuscript, Mr. Sapsea reads it to
himself with a lofty air, and then, slowly pacing the room with his
thumbs in the arm-holes of his waistcoat, repeats it from memory: so
internally, though with much dignity, that the word 'Ethelinda' is alone
audible.
There are three clean wineglasses in a tray on the table.  His
serving-maid entering, and announcing 'Mr. Jasper is come, sir,' Mr.
Sapsea waves 'Admit him,' and draws two wineglasses from the rank, as
being claimed.
'Glad to see you, sir.  I congratulate myself on having the honour of
receiving you here for the first time.'  Mr. Sapsea does the honours of
his house in this wise.
'You are very good.  The honour is mine and the self-congratulation is
mine.'
'You are pleased to say so, sir.  But I do assure you that it is a
satisfaction to me to receive you in my humble home.  And that is what I
would not say to everybody.'  Ineffable loftiness on Mr. Sapsea's part
accompanies these words, as leaving the sentence to be understood: 'You
will not easily believe that your society can be a satisfaction to a man
like myself; nevertheless, it is.'
'I have for some time desired to know you, Mr. Sapsea.'
'And I, sir, have long known you by reputation as a man of taste.  Let me
fill your glass.  I will give you, sir,' says Mr. Sapsea, filling his
own:
    'When the French come over,
    May we meet them at Dover!'
This was a patriotic toast in Mr. Sapsea's infancy, and he is therefore
fully convinced of its being appropriate to any subsequent era.
'You can scarcely be ignorant, Mr. Sapsea,' observes Jasper, watching the
auctioneer with a smile as the latter stretches out his legs before the
fire, 'that you know the world.'
'Well, sir,' is the chuckling reply, 'I think I know something of it;
something of it.'
'Your reputation for that knowledge has always interested and surprised
me, and made me wish to know you.  For Cloisterham is a little place.
Cooped up in it myself, I know nothing beyond it, and feel it to be a
very little place.'
'If I have not gone to foreign countries, young man,' Mr. Sapsea begins,
and then stops:--'You will excuse me calling you young man, Mr. Jasper?
You are much my junior.'
'By all means.'
'If I have not gone to foreign countries, young man, foreign countries
have come to me.  They have come to me in the way of business, and I have
improved upon my opportunities.  Put it that I take an inventory, or make
a catalogue.  I see a French clock.  I never saw him before, in my life,
but I instantly lay my finger on him and say "Paris!"  I see some cups
and saucers of Chinese make, equally strangers to me personally: I put my
finger on them, then and there, and I say "Pekin, Nankin, and Canton."
It is the same with Japan, with Egypt, and with bamboo and sandalwood
from the East Indies; I put my finger on them all.  I have put my finger
on the North Pole before now, and said "Spear of Esquimaux make, for half
a pint of pale sherry!"'
