"Cases!" interposed the client, impatiently. "Don't talk to me of cases.
The general precedent is in a much larger volume than any of your law
books. Besides, do you think I have lived six weeks in the Doctor's
house for nothing?"
"I think, Sir," observed Mr. Snitchey, gravely addressing himself to his
partner, "that of all the scrapes Mr. Warden's horses have brought him
into at one time and another--and they have been pretty numerous, and
pretty expensive, as none know better than himself and you and I--the
worst scrape may turn out to be, if he talks in this way, his having
been ever left by one of them at the Doctor's garden wall, with three
broken ribs, a snapped collar-bone, and the Lord knows how many bruises.
We didn't think so much of it, at the time when we knew he was going on
well under the Doctor's hands and roof; but it looks bad now, Sir. Bad!
It looks very bad. Doctor Jeddler too--our client, Mr. Craggs."
"Mr. Alfred Heathfield too--a sort of client, Mr. Snitchey," said
Craggs.
"Mr. Michael Warden too, a kind of client," said the careless visitor,
"and no bad one either: having played the fool for ten or twelve years.
However Mr. Michael Warden has sown his wild oats now; there's their
crop, in that box; and means to repent and be wise. And in proof of it,
Mr. Michael Warden means, if he can, to marry Marion, the Doctor's
lovely daughter, and to carry her away with him."
"Really, Mr. Craggs," Snitchey began.
"Really Mr. Snitchey, and Mr. Craggs, partners both," said the client,
interrupting him; "you know your duty to your clients, and you know well
enough, I am sure, that it is no part of it to interfere in a mere love
affair, which I am obliged to confide to you. I am not going to carry
the young lady off, without her own consent. There's nothing illegal in
it. I never was Mr. Heathfield's bosom friend. I violate no confidence
of his. I love where he loves, and I mean to win where he would win, if
I can."
"He can't, Mr. Craggs," said Snitchey, evidently anxious and
discomfited. "He can't do it, Sir. She dotes on Mr. Alfred."
"Does she?" returned the client.
"Mr. Craggs, she dotes on him, Sir," persisted Snitchey.
"I didn't live six weeks, some few months ago, in the Doctor's house for
nothing; and I doubted that soon," observed the client. "She would have
doted on him, if her sister could have brought it about; but I watched
them. Marion avoided his name, avoided the subject: shrunk from the
least allusion to it, with evident distress."
"Why should she, Mr. Craggs, you know? Why should she, Sir?" inquired
Snitchey.
"I don't know why she should, though there are many likely reasons,"
said the client, smiling at the attention and perplexity expressed in
Mr. Snitchey's shining eye, and at his cautious way of carrying on the
conversation, and making himself informed upon the subject; "but I know
she does. She was very young when she made the engagement--if it may be
called one, I am not even sure of that--and has repented of it, perhaps.
Perhaps--it seems a foppish thing to say, but upon my soul I don't mean
it in that light--she may have fallen in love with me, as I have fallen
in love with her."
