We went to an hotel by the sea, where two gentlemen were smoking cigars
in a room by themselves. Each of them was lying on at least four chairs,
and had a large rough jacket on. In a corner was a heap of coats and
boat-cloaks, and a flag, all bundled up together.
They both rolled on to their feet in an untidy sort of manner when we
came in, and said "Halloa, Murdstone! We thought you were dead!"
"Not yet," said Mr. Murdstone.
"And who's this shaver?" said one of the gentlemen, taking hold of me.
"That's Davy," returned Mr. Murdstone.
"Davy who?" said the gentleman. "Jones?"
"Copperfield," said Mr. Murdstone.
"What! Bewitching Mrs. Copperfield's incumbrance?" cried the gentleman.
"The pretty little widow?"
"Quinion," said Mr. Murdstone, "take care, if you please. Somebody's
sharp."
"Who is?" asked the gentleman, laughing.
I looked up, quickly; being curious to know.
"Only Brooks of Sheffield," said Mr. Murdstone.
I was quite relieved to find it was only Brooks of Sheffield; for, at
first, I really thought it was I.
There seemed to be something very comical in the reputation of Mr.
Brooks of Sheffield, for both the gentlemen laughed heartily when he was
mentioned, and Mr. Murdstone was a good deal amused also. After some
laughing, the gentleman whom he had called Quinion, said:
"And what is the opinion of Brooks of Sheffield, in reference to the
projected business?"
"Why, I don't know that Brooks understands much about it at present,"
replied Mr. Murdstone; "but he is not generally favourable, I believe."
There was more laughter at this, and Mr. Quinion said he would ring the
bell for some sherry in which to drink to Brooks. This he did; and when
the wine came, he made me have a little, with a biscuit, and, before I
drank it, stand up and say "Confusion to Brooks of Sheffield!" The toast
was received with great applause, and such hearty laughter that it made
me laugh too; at which they laughed the more. In short, we quite enjoyed
ourselves.
We walked about on the cliff after that, and sat on the grass, and
looked at things through a telescope--I could make out nothing myself
when it was put to my eye, but I pretended I could--and then we came
back to the hotel to an early dinner. All the time we were out, the two
gentlemen smoked incessantly--which, I thought, if I might judge from
the smell of their rough coats, they must have been doing, ever since
the coats had first come home from the tailor's. I must not forget that
we went on board the yacht, where they all three descended into the
cabin, and were busy with some papers. I saw them quite hard at work,
when I looked down through the open skylight. They left me, during this
time, with a very nice man with a very large head of red hair and a very
small shiny hat upon it, who had got a cross-barred shirt or waistcoat
on, with "Skylark" in capital letters across the chest. I thought it was
his name; and that as he lived on board ship and hadn't a street-door to
put his name on, he put it there instead; but when I called him Mr.
Skylark, he said it meant the vessel.
