My day's journey has been pleasanter in every respect than I expected. I
have been very little crowded and by no means unhappy. Your
watchfulness with regard to the weather on our accounts was very kind
and very effectual. We had one heavy shower on leaving Sittingbourne,
but afterwards the clouds cleared away, and we had a very bright
_chrystal_ afternoon.
My father is now reading the "Midnight Bell," which he has got from the
library, and mother sitting by the fire. Our route to-morrow is not
determined. We have none of us much inclination for London, and if Mr.
Nottley will give us leave, I think we shall go to Staines through
Croydon and Kingston, which will be much pleasanter than any other way;
but he is decidedly for Clapham and Battersea. God bless you all!
                                         Yours affectionately, J. A.
I flatter myself that _itty Dordy_ will not forget me at least under a
week. Kiss him for me.
  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.
VII.
                                    STEVENTON, Saturday (October 27).
MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Your letter was a most agreeable surprise to me
to-day, and I have taken a long sheet of paper to show my gratitude.
We arrived here yesterday between four and five, but I cannot send you
quite so triumphant an account of our last day's journey as of the
first and second. Soon after I had finished my letter from Staines, my
mother began to suffer from the exercise or fatigue of travelling, and
she was a good deal indisposed. She had not a very good night at
Staines, but bore her journey better than I had expected, and at
Basingstoke, where we stopped more than half an hour, received much
comfort from a mess of broth and the sight of Mr. Lyford, who
recommended her to take twelve drops of laudanum when she went to bed as
a composer, which she accordingly did.
James called on us just as we were going to tea, and my mother was well
enough to talk very cheerfully to him before she went to bed. James
seems to have taken to his old trick of coming to Steventon in spite of
Mary's reproaches, for he was here before breakfast and is now paying us
a second visit. They were to have dined here to-day, but the weather is
too bad. I have had the pleasure of hearing that Martha is with them.
James fetched her from Ibthorp on Thursday, and she will stay with them
till she removes to Kintbury.
We met with no adventures at all in our journey yesterday, except that
our trunk had once nearly slipped off, and we were obliged to stop at
Hartley to have our wheels greased.
Whilst my mother and Mr. Lyford were together I went to Mrs. Ryder's and
bought what I intended to buy, but not in much perfection. There were
no narrow braces for children, and scarcely any notting silk; but Miss
Wood, as usual, is going to town very soon, and will lay in a fresh
stock. I gave 2_s._ 3_d._ a yard for my flannel, and I fancy it is not
very good, but it is so disgraceful and contemptible an article in
itself that its being comparatively good or bad is of little importance.
I bought some Japan ink likewise, and next week shall begin my
operations on my hat, on which you know my principal hopes of happiness
depend.
