And now we sailed southerly, living sparingly on our provisions, and
went no oftener on shore than we were obliged for fresh water. My design
was to make the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about the Cape de
Verde, in hopes to meet some European ship. If Providence did not so
favour me, my next course was to seek for the islands, or lose my life
among the Negroes. And in a word, I put my whole stress upon this,
"Either that I must meet with some ship or certainly perish."
One day as we were sailing along, we saw people stand on the shore
looking at us: we could also perceive they were black and stark naked. I
was inclined to go on shore, but Xury cried, "No, no:" however, I
approached nearer, and I found they run along the shore by me a good
way. They had no weapons in their hands, except one, who held a long
stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with which they could kill at a
great distance. I talked to them by signs and made them sensible I
wanted something to eat: they beckoned to me to stop my boat, while two
of them ran up into the country, and in less than half an hour came
back, and brought with them two pieces of dried flesh, and some corn,
which we kindly accepted; and to prevent any fears on either side, they
brought the food to the shore, laid it down, then went and stood a great
way off till we fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them, being all we could afford,
two mighty creatures came from the mountains: one as it were pursuing
the other with great fury, which we were the rather inclined to believe
as they seldom appear but in the night: and both these swiftly passing
by the Negroes, jumped into the sea, wantonly swimming about, as tho'
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to their fierceness. At last
one of them coming nearer to my boat than I expected or desired, I shot
him directly through the head; upon which he sunk immediately, and yet
rising again, would have willingly made the shore: but between the wound
and the strangling of the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation the poor Negroes were in
at the firing of my gun; much less can I mention their surprise, when
they perceived the creature to be slain by it. I made signs to them to
draw near it with a rope, and then gave it them to hale on shore. It was
a beautiful leopard, which made me desire its skin: and the Negroes
seeming to covet the carcase, I freely gave it to them. As for the other
leopard, it made to shore, and ran with prodigious swiftness out of
sight. The Negroes having kindly furnished me with water, and with what
roots and grains their country afforded, I took my leave, and, after
eleven days sail, came in sight of the Cape de Verde, and those islands
called by its name. But the great distance I was from it, and fearing
contrary winds would prevent my reaching them, I began to grow
melancholy and dejected, when, upon a sudden, Xury cried out, "Master!
Master! a ship with a sail!" and looked as affrighted as if it was his
master's ship sent in search of us. But I soon discovered she was a
Portuguese ship, as I thought bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes.
Upon which I strove for life to come up to them. But vain had it been,
if through their perspective glasses they had not perceived me and
shortened their sail to let me come up. Encouraged at this, I set up my
patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both as signals of distress; upon
which they very kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I came up
with them. They spoke to me in Portuguese, Spanish, and French, but
neither of these did I understand; till at length a Scots sailor called,
and then I told him I was an Englishman, who had escaped from the Moors
at Sallee: upon which they took me kindly on board, with all my effects.
