"I--I let him sleep."
"Too much sleep ain't any too healthful either. Don't you give him any
medicine?"
"Y--yes."
"Don't you wake him to take it?"
"Yes."
"When does he take the next dose?"
"Not for--two hours--"
The lady looked disappointed. "Well, if I was you I'd try giving it
oftener. That's what I do with my folks."
After that many faces seemed to press upon her. The passengers were on
their way to the dining-car, and she was conscious that as they passed
down the aisle they glanced curiously at the closed curtains. One
lantern-jawed man with prominent eyes stood still and tried to shoot his
projecting glance through the division between the folds. The freckled
child, returning from breakfast, waylaid the passers with a buttery
clutch, saying in a loud whisper, "He's sick;" and once the conductor
came by, asking for tickets. She shrank into her corner and looked out
of the window at the flying trees and houses, meaningless hieroglyphs of
an endlessly unrolled papyrus.
Now and then the train stopped, and the newcomers on entering the car
stared in turn at the closed curtains. More and more people seemed to
pass--their faces began to blend fantastically with the images surging
in her brain....
Later in the day a fat man detached himself from the mist of faces. He
had a creased stomach and soft pale lips. As he pressed himself into
the seat facing her she noticed that he was dressed in black broadcloth,
with a soiled white tie.
"Husband's pretty bad this morning, is he?"
"Yes."
"Dear, dear! Now that's terribly distressing, ain't it?" An apostolic
smile revealed his gold-filled teeth.
"Of course you know there's no sech thing as sickness. Ain't that a
lovely thought? Death itself is but a deloosion of our grosser senses.
On'y lay yourself open to the influx of the sperrit, submit yourself
passively to the action of the divine force, and disease and dissolution
will cease to exist for you. If you could indooce your husband to read
this little pamphlet--"
The faces about her again grew indistinct. She had a vague recollection
of hearing the motherly lady and the parent of the freckled child
ardently disputing the relative advantages of trying several medicines
at once, or of taking each in turn; the motherly lady maintaining that
the competitive system saved time; the other objecting that you couldn't
tell which remedy had effected the cure; their voices went on and on,
like bell-buoys droning through a fog.... The porter came up now and
then with questions that she did not understand, but that somehow she
must have answered since he went away again without repeating them;
every two hours the motherly lady reminded her that her husband ought to
have his drops; people left the car and others replaced them...
Her head was spinning and she tried to steady herself by clutching
at her thoughts as they swept by, but they slipped away from her like
bushes on the side of a sheer precipice down which she seemed to be
falling. Suddenly her mind grew clear again and she found herself
vividly picturing what would happen when the train reached New York.
She shuddered as it occurred to her that he would be quite cold and that
some one might perceive he had been dead since morning.
