The Man was uneasy, and began to waver in his Resolution, and had it not
been for the continu'd Importunities of his Wife, I believe would have come
on again; for People generally encline to a Thing that is rejected, when
they would reject the same Thing when profer'd: But I knew it was not my
Business to let myself be blow'd upon, so I kept to my Resolution, and
wholly declin'd that Affair, on Pretence of its having got an ill Name for
an unlucky Ship; and that Name stuck so to her, that the Owners could never
sell her, and, as I have been inform'd since, were oblig'd to break her up
at last.
It was a great while I spent with hunting after a Ship, but was every Way
disappointed, till Money grew short, and the Number of my Men lessen'd
apace, and at last we were reduc'd to seven, when an Opportunity happen'd
in my Way to go Chief-Mate on Board a stout Ship bound from _London_ to
. . . . . .
[_N. B. In Things so modern, it is no Way convenient to write to you
particular Circumstances and Names of Persons, Ships, or Places, because
those Things being in themselves criminal, may be call'd up in Question in
a judicial Way; and therefore I warn the Reader to observe, that not only
all the Names are omitted, but even the Scene of Action in this criminal
Part, is not laid exactly as Things were acted; least I should give Justice
a Clew to unravel my Story by, which no Body will blame me for avoiding._]
It is enough to tell the Reader, that being put out to Sea, and being for
Conveniency of Wind and Weather come to an Anchor on the Coast of _Spain_,
my seven Companions having resolv'd upon our Measures, and having brought
three more of the Men to confederate with us, we took up Arms in the middle
of the Night, secur'd the Captain, the Gunner, and the Carpenter, and after
that, all the rest of the Men, and declar'd our Intention: The Captain and
nine Men refus'd to come into our projected Roguery, (for we gave them
their Choice to go with us, or go on Shore) so we put them on Shore very
civilly, gave the Master his Books, and every Thing he could carry with
him; and all the rest of the Men agreed to go along with us.
As I had resolv'd, before I went on Board, upon what I purpos'd to do, so I
had laid out all the Money I had left in such Things as I knew I should
want, and had caus'd one of my Men to pretend he was going to ------ to
build or buy a Ship there, and that he wanted Freight for a great deal of
Cordage, Anchors, eight Guns, Powder and Ball, with about 20 Tun of Lead
and other bulky Goods, which were all put on Board as Merchandize.
