Notwithstanding that the fact had been notorious beforehand to all the
tea-drinkers, and had been discussed and expatiated on at every
tea-drinking in the neighbourhood for the last twelve months, this
official communication was no sooner made than they all began to talk
at once and to vie with each other in vehemence and volubility.  Mrs
George remarked that people would talk, that people had often said this
to her before, that Mrs Simmons then and there present had told her so
twenty times, that she had always said, 'No, Henrietta Simmons, unless
I see it with my own eyes and hear it with my own ears, I never will
believe it.' Mrs Simmons corroborated this testimony and added strong
evidence of her own. The lady from the Minories recounted a successful
course of treatment under which she had placed her own husband, who,
from manifesting one month after marriage unequivocal symptoms of the
tiger, had by this means become subdued into a perfect lamb. Another
lady recounted her own personal struggle and final triumph, in the
course whereof she had found it necessary to call in her mother and two
aunts, and to weep incessantly night and day for six weeks. A third,
who in the general confusion could secure no other listener, fastened
herself upon a young woman still unmarried who happened to be amongst
them, and conjured her, as she valued her own peace of mind and
happiness to profit by this solemn occasion, to take example from the
weakness of Mrs Quilp, and from that time forth to direct her whole
thoughts to taming and subduing the rebellious spirit of man. The noise
was at its height, and half the company had elevated their voices into
a perfect shriek in order to drown the voices of the other half, when
Mrs Jiniwin was seen to change colour and shake her forefinger
stealthily, as if exhorting them to silence. Then, and not until then,
Daniel Quilp himself, the cause and occasion of all this clamour, was
observed to be in the room, looking on and listening with profound
attention.
'Go on, ladies, go on,' said Daniel. 'Mrs Quilp, pray ask the ladies to
stop to supper, and have a couple of lobsters and something light and
palatable.'
'I--I--didn't ask them to tea, Quilp,' stammered his wife. 'It's quite
an accident.'
'So much the better, Mrs Quilp; these accidental parties are always the
pleasantest,' said the dwarf, rubbing his hands so hard that he seemed
to be engaged in manufacturing, of the dirt with which they were
encrusted, little charges for popguns. 'What! Not going, ladies, you
are not going, surely!'
His fair enemies tossed their heads slightly as they sought their
respective bonnets and shawls, but left all verbal contention to Mrs
Jiniwin, who finding herself in the position of champion, made a faint
struggle to sustain the character.
'And why not stop to supper, Quilp,' said the old lady, 'if my daughter
had a mind?'
'To be sure,' rejoined Daniel. 'Why not?'
