     I have not seen him since, and it is evening; but I have had a long
     talk with the doctor, who says that he has satisfied himself that
     Chris is suffering from a loss of memory extending over a period of
     fifteen years. He says that though, of course, it will be an
     occasion of great trial to us all, he thinks that, in view of
     Chris's expressed longing for Harrowweald, he ought to be taken
     home, and advises me to make all arrangements for bringing him back
     some time next week. I hope I shall be upheld in this difficult
     enterprise.
     In the meantime I leave it to you to prepare Kitty for this
     terrible shock. I could have wished it were a woman of a different
     type who was to see my poor cousin through these dark days, but
     convey to her my deepest sympathy. Indeed, I never realized the
     horror of warfare until I saw my cousin, of whose probity I am as
     firmly convinced as of my own wantonly repudiating his most sacred
     obligations.
          Yours ever,
                FRANK.
Over my shoulder Kitty muttered:
"And he always pretended he liked my singing." Then she gripped my arm
and shrieked in a possessive fury: "Bring him home! Bring him home!"
So, a week later, they brought Chris home.
From breakfast-time that day the house was pervaded with a
day-before-the-funeral feeling. Although all duties arising from the
occasion had been performed, one could settle to nothing else. Chris was
expected at one, but then there came a telegram to say he was delayed
till the late afternoon. So Kitty, whose beauty was as changed in grief
from its ordinary seeming as a rose in moonlight is different from a
rose by day, took me down after lunch to the greenhouses and had a
snappishly competent conversation about the year's vegetables with Pipe,
the gardener. Then Kitty went into the drawing-room and filled the house
with the desolate merriment of an inattentively played pianola, while I
sat in the hall and wrote letters and noticed how sad dance-music has
sounded ever since the war began. After that she started a savage raid
of domestic efficiency, and made the housemaids cry because the brass
handles of the tall-boys were not bright enough and because there was
only ten-to-one instead of a hundred-to-one risk of breaking a leg on
the parquet. Then she had tea, and hated the soda-cake. She was a
little, shrunk thing, huddled in the arm-chair farthest from the light,
when at last the big car came nosing up the drive through the dark.
We stood up. Through the thudding of the engines came the sound of
Chris's great male voice which always had in it a note like the baying
of a big dog. "Thanks, I can manage by myself." I heard, amazed, his
step ring strong upon the stone, for I had felt his absence as a kind of
death from which he would emerge ghostlike, impalpable. And then he
stood in the doorway, the gloom blurring his outlines like fur, the
faint, clear candle-light catching the fair down on his face. He did
not see me, in my dark dress, or huddled Kitty, and with the sleepy
smile of one who returns to a dear, familiar place to rest he walked
into the hall and laid down his stick and his khaki cap beside the
candlestick on the oak table. With both hands he felt the old wood, and
stood humming happily through his teeth.
