The young man confessed nothing. He was degraded, deprived of his
nobiliary privileges, and condemned to twenty years' hard labour. As
long as I knew him I always found him to be careless of his position. He
was the most light-minded, inconsiderate man that I ever met, although
he was far from being a fool. I never observed in him any great tendency
to cruelty. The other convicts despised him, not on account of his
crime, of which there was never any question, but because he was without
dignity. He sometimes spoke of his father. One day for instance,
boasting of the hereditary good health of his family, he said: "My
father, for example, until his death was never ill."
Animal insensibility carried to such a point is most remarkable--it is,
indeed, phenomenal. There must have been in this case an organic defect
in the man, some physical and moral monstrosity unknown hitherto to
science, and not simply crime. I naturally did not believe in so
atrocious a crime; but people of the same town as himself, who knew all
the details of his history, related it to me. The facts were so clear
that it would have been madness not to accept them. The prisoners once
heard him cry out during his sleep: "Hold him! hold him! Cut his head
off, his head, his head!"
Nearly all the convicts dreamed aloud, or were delirious in their sleep.
Insults, words of slang, knives, hatchets, seemed constantly present in
their dreams. "We are crushed!" they would say; "we are without
entrails; that is why we shriek in the night."
Hard labour in our fortress was not an occupation, but an obligation.
The prisoners accomplished their task, they worked the number of hours
fixed by the law, and then returned to the prison. They hated their
liberty. If the convict did not do some work on his own account
voluntarily, it would be impossible for him to support his confinement.
How could these persons, all strongly constituted, who had lived
sumptuously, and desired so to live again, who had been brought
together against their will, after society had cast them up--how could
they live in a normal and natural manner? Man cannot exist without work,
without legal, natural property. Depart from these conditions, and he
becomes perverted and changed into a wild beast. Accordingly, every
convict, through natural requirements and by the instinct of
self-preservation, had a trade--an occupation of some kind.
The long days of summer were taken up almost entirely by our hard
labour. The night was so short that we had only just time to sleep. It
was not the same in winter. According to the regulations, the prisoners
had to be shut up in the barracks at nightfall. What was to be done
during these long, sad evenings but work? Consequently each barrack,
though locked and bolted, assumed the appearance of a large workshop.
The work was not, it is true, strictly forbidden, but it was forbidden
to have tools, without which work is evidently impossible. But we
laboured in secret, and the administration seemed to shut its eyes. Many
prisoners arrived without knowing how to make use of their ten fingers;
but they learnt a trade from some of their companions, and became
excellent workmen.
