Plato is most true to the character of his master when he describes him
as "not of this world."  And with this representation of him the ideal
State and the other paradoxes of the Republic are quite in accordance,
though they can not be shown to have been speculations of Socrates.  To
him, as to other great teachers both philosophical and religious, when
they looked upward, the world seemed to be the embodiment of error and
evil.  The common sense of mankind has revolted against this view, or
has only partially admitted it.  And even in Socrates himself the
sterner judgment of the multitude at times passes into a sort of
ironical pity or love.  Men in general are incapable of philosophy, and
are therefore at enmity with the philosopher; but their
misunderstanding of him is unavoidable: for they have never seen him as
he truly is in his own image; they are only acquainted with artificial
systems possessing no native force of truth--words which admit of many
applications.  Their leaders have nothing to measure with, and are
therefore ignorant of their own stature.  But they are to be pitied or
laughed at, not to be quarrelled with; they mean well with their
nostrums, if they could only learn that they are cutting off a Hydra's
head.  This moderation towards those who are in error is one of the
most characteristic features of Socrates in the Republic.  In all the
different representations of Socrates, whether of Xenophon or Plato,
and the differences of the earlier or later Dialogues, he always
retains the character of the unwearied and disinterested seeker after
truth, without which he would have ceased to be Socrates.
Leaving the characters we may now analyze the contents of the Republic,
and then proceed to consider (1) The general aspects of this Hellenic
ideal of the State, (2) The modern lights in which the thoughts of
Plato may be read.
BOOK I
SOCRATES - GLAUCON
I WENT down yesterday to the Piraeus with Glaucon the son of Ariston,
that I might offer up my prayers to the goddess; and also because I
wanted to see in what manner they would celebrate the festival, which
was a new thing.  I was delighted with the procession of the
inhabitants; but that of the Thracians was equally, if not more,
beautiful.  When we had finished our prayers and viewed the spectacle,
we turned in the direction of the city; and at that instant Polemarchus
the son of Cephalus chanced to catch sight of us from a distance as we
were starting on our way home, and told his servant to run and bid us
wait for him.  The servant took hold of me by the cloak behind, and
said: Polemarchus desires you to wait.
I turned round, and asked him where his master was.
There he is, said the youth, coming after you, if you will only wait.
Certainly we will, said Glaucon; and in a few minutes Polemarchus
appeared, and with him Adeimantus, Glaucon's brother, Niceratus the son
of Nicias, and several others who had been at the procession.
