"On Sunday, when I go by the church, I hear you sing something."
Thea obediently sat down on the stool again and began, "COME, YE
DISCONSOLATE." Wunsch listened thoughtfully, his hands on his knees.
Such a beautiful child's voice! Old Mrs. Kohler's face relaxed in a
smile of happiness; she half closed her eyes. A big fly was darting in
and out of the window; the sunlight made a golden pool on the rag carpet
and bathed the faded cretonne pillows on the lounge, under the
piece-picture. "EARTH HAS NO SORROW THAT HEAVEN CANNOT HEAL," the song
died away.
"That is a good thing to remember," Wunsch shook himself. "You believe
that?" looking quizzically at Thea.
She became confused and pecked nervously at a black key with her middle
finger. "I don't know. I guess so," she murmured.
Her teacher rose abruptly. "Remember, for next time, thirds. You ought
to get up earlier."
That night the air was so warm that Fritz and Herr Wunsch had their
after-supper pipe in the grape arbor, smoking in silence while the sound
of fiddles and guitars came across the ravine from Mexican Town. Long
after Fritz and his old Paulina had gone to bed, Wunsch sat motionless
in the arbor, looking up through the woolly vine leaves at the
glittering machinery of heaven.
"LENTE CURRITE, NOCTIS EQUI."
That line awoke many memories. He was thinking of youth; of his own, so
long gone by, and of his pupil's, just beginning. He would even have
cherished hopes for her, except that he had become superstitious. He
believed that whatever he hoped for was destined not to be; that his
affection brought ill-fortune, especially to the young; that if he held
anything in his thoughts, he harmed it. He had taught in music schools
in St. Louis and Kansas City, where the shallowness and complacency of
the young misses had maddened him. He had encountered bad manners and
bad faith, had been the victim of sharpers of all kinds, was dogged by
bad luck. He had played in orchestras that were never paid and wandering
opera troupes which disbanded penniless. And there was always the old
enemy, more relentless than the others. It was long since he had wished
anything or desired anything beyond the necessities of the body. Now
that he was tempted to hope for another, he felt alarmed and shook his
head.
It was his pupil's power of application, her rugged will, that
interested him. He had lived for so long among people whose sole
ambition was to get something for nothing that he had learned not to
look for seriousness in anything. Now that he by chance encountered it,
it recalled standards, ambitions, a society long forgot. What was it she
reminded him of? A yellow flower, full of sunlight, perhaps. No; a thin
glass full of sweet-smelling, sparkling Moselle wine. He seemed to see
such a glass before him in the arbor, to watch the bubbles rising and
breaking, like the silent discharge of energy in the nerves and brain,
the rapid florescence in young blood--Wunsch felt ashamed and dragged
his slippers along the path to the kitchen, his eyes on the ground.
