'Hold your tongue,' said his friend.
'Sir,' replied Mr Swiveller, 'don't you interrupt the chair.
Gentlemen, how does the case stand, upon the present occasion?  Here is
a jolly old grandfather--I say it with the utmost respect--and here is
a wild, young grandson. The jolly old grandfather says to the wild
young grandson, "I have brought you up and educated you, Fred; I have
put you in the way of getting on in life; you have bolted a little out
of course, as young fellows often do; and you shall never have another
chance, nor the ghost of half a one."  The wild young grandson makes
answer to this and says, "You're as rich as rich can be; you have been
at no uncommon expense on my account, you're saving up piles of money
for my little sister that lives with you in a secret, stealthy,
hugger-muggering kind of way and with no manner of enjoyment--why can't
you stand a trifle for your grown-up relation?" The jolly old
grandfather unto this, retorts, not only that he declines to fork out
with that cheerful readiness which is always so agreeable and pleasant
in a gentleman of his time of life, but that he will bow up, and call
names, and make reflections whenever they meet. Then the plain question
is, an't it a pity that this state of things should continue, and how
much better would it be for the gentleman to hand over a reasonable
amount of tin, and make it all right and comfortable?'
Having delivered this oration with a great many waves and flourishes of
the hand, Mr Swiveller abruptly thrust the head of his cane into his
mouth as if to prevent himself from impairing the effect of his speech
by adding one other word.
'Why do you hunt and persecute me, God help me!' said the old man
turning to his grandson. 'Why do you bring your prolifigate companions
here? How often am I to tell you that my life is one of care and
self-denial, and that I am poor?'
'How often am I to tell you,' returned the other, looking coldly at
him, 'that I know better?'
'You have chosen your own path,' said the old man. 'Follow it.  Leave
Nell and me to toil and work.'
'Nell will be a woman soon,' returned the other, 'and, bred in your
faith, she'll forget her brother unless he shows himself sometimes.'
'Take care,' said the old man with sparkling eyes, 'that she does not
forget you when you would have her memory keenest. Take care that the
day don't come when you walk barefoot in the streets, and she rides by
in a gay carriage of her own.'
'You mean when she has your money?' retorted the other. 'How like a
poor man he talks!'
'And yet,' said the old man dropping his voice and speaking like one
who thinks aloud, 'how poor we are, and what a life it is! The cause is
a young child's guiltless of all harm or wrong, but nothing goes well
with it! Hope and patience, hope and patience!'
