"It's so like Whistler!" she exclaimed, with a wave towards the shore,
as she shook Rachel by the hand, and Rachel had only time to look at the
grey hills on one side of her before Willoughby introduced Mrs. Chailey,
who took the lady to her cabin.
Momentary though it seemed, nevertheless the interruption was upsetting;
every one was more or less put out by it, from Mr. Grice, the steward,
to Ridley himself. A few minutes later Rachel passed the smoking-room,
and found Helen moving arm-chairs. She was absorbed in her arrangements,
and on seeing Rachel remarked confidentially:
"If one can give men a room to themselves where they will sit, it's all
to the good. Arm-chairs are _the_ important things--" She began wheeling
them about. "Now, does it still look like a bar at a railway station?"
She whipped a plush cover off a table. The appearance of the place was
marvellously improved.
Again, the arrival of the strangers made it obvious to Rachel, as the
hour of dinner approached, that she must change her dress; and the
ringing of the great bell found her sitting on the edge of her berth in
such a position that the little glass above the washstand reflected
her head and shoulders. In the glass she wore an expression of tense
melancholy, for she had come to the depressing conclusion, since the
arrival of the Dalloways, that her face was not the face she wanted, and
in all probability never would be.
However, punctuality had been impressed on her, and whatever face she
had, she must go in to dinner.
These few minutes had been used by Willoughby in sketching to the
Dalloways the people they were to meet, and checking them upon his
fingers.
"There's my brother-in-law, Ambrose, the scholar (I daresay you've heard
his name), his wife, my old friend Pepper, a very quiet fellow, but
knows everything, I'm told. And that's all. We're a very small party.
I'm dropping them on the coast."
Mrs. Dalloway, with her head a little on one side, did her best to
recollect Ambrose--was it a surname?--but failed. She was made slightly
uneasy by what she had heard. She knew that scholars married any
one--girls they met in farms on reading parties; or little suburban
women who said disagreeably, "Of course I know it's my husband you want;
not _me_."
But Helen came in at that point, and Mrs. Dalloway saw with relief
that though slightly eccentric in appearance, she was not untidy, held
herself well, and her voice had restraint in it, which she held to be
the sign of a lady. Mr. Pepper had not troubled to change his neat ugly
suit.
"But after all," Clarissa thought to herself as she followed Vinrace in
to dinner, "_every_ _one's_ interesting really."
When seated at the table she had some need of that assurance, chiefly
because of Ridley, who came in late, looked decidedly unkempt, and took
to his soup in profound gloom.
An imperceptible signal passed between husband and wife, meaning that
they grasped the situation and would stand by each other loyally. With
scarcely a pause Mrs. Dalloway turned to Willoughby and began:
