She dramatized her explanation so vividly that Darrow felt as if his
point were gained.
"Ah, but this confirms your vocation--of course," he cried, "you must
see Cerdine!" and, seeing her face fall at this reminder of the change
in her prospects, he hastened to set forth his plan. As he did so, he
saw how easy it was to explain things to her. She would either accept
his suggestion, or she would not: but at least she would waste no time
in protestations and objections, or any vain sacrifice to the idols of
conformity. The conviction that one could, on any given point, almost
predicate this of her, gave him the sense of having advanced far enough
in her intimacy to urge his arguments against a hasty pursuit of her
friends.
Yes, it would certainly be foolish--she at once agreed--in the case
of such dear indefinite angels as the Farlows, to dash off after them
without more positive proof that they were established at Joigny, and
so established that they could take her in. She owned it was but too
probable that they had gone there to "cut down", and might be doing so
in quarters too contracted to receive her; and it would be unfair, on
that chance, to impose herself on them unannounced. The simplest way of
getting farther light on the question would be to go back to the rue de
la Chaise, where, at that more conversable hour, the concierge might be
less chary of detail; and she could decide on her next step in the light
of such facts as he imparted.
Point by point, she fell in with the suggestion, recognizing, in the
light of their unexplained flight, that the Farlows might indeed be in a
situation on which one could not too rashly intrude. Her concern for her
friends seemed to have effaced all thought of herself, and this little
indication of character gave Darrow a quite disproportionate pleasure.
She agreed that it would be well to go at once to the rue de la Chaise,
but met his proposal that they should drive by the declaration that it
was a "waste" not to walk in Paris; so they set off on foot through the
cheerful tumult of the streets.
The walk was long enough for him to learn many things about her. The
storm of the previous night had cleared the air, and Paris shone in
morning beauty under a sky that was all broad wet washes of white and
blue; but Darrow again noticed that her visual sensitiveness was less
keen than her feeling for what he was sure the good Farlows--whom he
already seemed to know--would have called "the human interest." She
seemed hardly conscious of sensations of form and colour, or of any
imaginative suggestion, and the spectacle before them--always, in
its scenic splendour, so moving to her companion--broke up, under her
scrutiny, into a thousand minor points: the things in the shops, the
types of character and manner of occupation shown in the passing faces,
the street signs, the names of the hotels they passed, the motley
brightness of the flower-carts, the identity of the churches and public
buildings that caught her eye. But what she liked best, he divined, was
the mere fact of being free to walk abroad in the bright air, her
tongue rattling on as it pleased, while her feet kept time to the mighty
orchestration of the city's sounds. Her delight in the fresh air, in
the freedom, light and sparkle of the morning, gave him a sudden insight
into her stifled past; nor was it indifferent to him to perceive
how much his presence evidently added to her enjoyment. If only as a
sympathetic ear, he guessed what he must be worth to her. The girl
had been dying for some one to talk to, some one before whom she could
unfold and shake out to the light her poor little shut-away emotions.
Years of repression were revealed in her sudden burst of confidence; and
the pity she inspired made Darrow long to fill her few free hours to the
brim.
