The offices of Messrs. Snitchey and Craggs stood convenient with an open
door, down two smooth steps in the market-place: so that any angry
farmer inclining towards hot water, might tumble into it at once. Their
special council-chamber and hall of conference was an old back room up
stairs, with a low dark ceiling, which seemed to be knitting its brows
gloomily in the consideration of tangled points of law. It was furnished
with some high-backed leathern chairs, garnished with great goggle-eyed
brass nails, of which, every here and there, two or three had fallen
out; or had been picked out, perhaps, by the wandering thumbs and
forefingers of bewildered clients. There was a framed print of a great
judge in it, every curl in whose dreadful wig had made a man's hair
stand on end. Bales of papers filled the dusty closets, shelves, and
tables; and round the wainscoat there were tiers of boxes, padlocked and
fireproof, with people's names painted outside, which anxious visitors
felt themselves, by a cruel enchantment, obliged to spell backwards and
forwards, and to make anagrams of, while they sat, seeming to listen to
Snitchey and Craggs, without comprehending one word of what they said.
Snitchey and Craggs had each, in private life as in professional
existence, a partner of his own. Snitchey and Craggs were the best
friends in the world, and had a real confidence in one another; but
Mrs. Snitchey, by a dispensation not uncommon in the affairs of life,
was, on principle, suspicious of Mr. Craggs, and Mrs. Craggs was, on
principle, suspicious of Mr. Snitchey. "Your Snitcheys indeed," the
latter lady would observe, sometimes, to Mr. Craggs; using that
imaginative plural as if in disparagement of an objectionable pair of
pantaloons, or other articles not possessed of a singular number; "I
don't see what you want with your Snitcheys, for my part. You trust a
great deal too much to your Snitcheys, _I_ think, and I hope you may
never find my words come true." While Mrs. Snitchey would observe to Mr.
Snitchey, of Craggs, "that if ever he was led away by man he was led
away by that man; and that if ever she read a double purpose in a mortal
eye, she read that purpose in Craggs's eye." Notwithstanding this,
however, they were all very good friends in general: and Mrs. Snitchey
and Mrs. Craggs maintained a close bond of alliance against "the
office," which they both considered a Blue chamber, and common enemy,
full of dangerous (because unknown) machinations.
In this office, nevertheless, Snitchey and Craggs made honey for their
several hives. Here sometimes they would linger, of a fine evening, at
the window of their council-chamber, overlooking the old battle-ground,
and wonder (but that was generally at assize time, when much business
had made them sentimental) at the folly of mankind, who couldn't always
be at peace with one another, and go to law comfortably. Here days, and
weeks, and months, and years, passed over them; their calendar, the
gradually diminishing number of brass nails in the leathern chairs, and
the increasing bulk of papers on the tables. Here nearly three years'
flight had thinned the one and swelled the other, since the breakfast in
the orchard; when they sat together in consultation, at night.
