TIMON.
Let all my land be sold.
FLAVIUS.
'Tis all engag'd, some forfeited and gone;
And what remains will hardly stop the mouth
Of present dues; the future comes apace:
What shall defend the interim? and at length
How goes our reckoning?
TIMON.
To Lacedaemon did my land extend.
FLAVIUS.
O my good lord! the world is but a word;
Were it all yours to give it in a breath,
How quickly were it gone!
TIMON.
You tell me true.
FLAVIUS.
If you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,
Call me before the exactest auditors
And set me on the proof. So the gods bless me,
When all our offices have been oppress'd
With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept
With drunken spilth of wine, when every room
Hath blaz'd with lights and bray'd with minstrelsy,
I have retir'd me to a wasteful cock,
And set mine eyes at flow.
TIMON.
Prithee, no more.
FLAVIUS.
Heavens! have I said, the bounty of this lord!
How many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants
This night englutted! Who is not Timon's?
What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is Lord Timon's?
Great Timon, noble, worthy, royal Timon!'
Ah! when the means are gone that buy this praise,
The breath is gone whereof this praise is made:
Feast--won, fast--lost; one cloud of winter showers,
These flies are couch'd.
TIMON.
Come, sermon me no further;
No villainous bounty yet hath pass'd my heart;
Unwisely, not ignobly, have I given.
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack,
To think I shall lack friends? Secure thy heart;
If I would broach the vessels of my love,
And try the argument of hearts by borrowing,
Men and men's fortunes could I frankly use
As I can bid thee speak.
FLAVIUS.
Assurance bless your thoughts!
TIMON.
And, in some sort, these wants of mine are crown'd
That I account them blessings; for by these
Shall I try friends. You shall perceive how you
Mistake my fortunes; I am wealthy in my friends.
Within there! Flaminius! Servilius!
[Enter FLAMINIUS, SERVILIUS, and other Servants.]
SERVANTS.
My lord! my lord!
TIMON.
I will dispatch you severally: you to Lord Lucius; to Lord
Lucullus you: I hunted with his honour to-day; you, to
Sempronius. Commend me to their loves; and I am proud, say, that
my occasions have found time to use them toward a supply of
money: let the request be fifty talents.
FLAMINIUS.
As you have said, my lord.
FLAVIUS.
[Aside.] Lord Lucius and Lucullus? hum!
TIMON. [To another Servant.]
Go you, sir, to the senators,--
Of whom, even to the state's best health, I have
Deserv'd this hearing,--Bid 'em send o' the instant
A thousand talents to me.
FLAVIUS.
I have been bold,--
For that I knew it the most general way,--
To them to use your signet and your name;
But they do shake their heads, and I am here
No richer in return.
TIMON.
Is't true? can't be?
FLAVIUS.
They answer, in a joint and corporate voice,
That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot
Do what they would; are sorry; you are honourable;
But yet they could have wish'd; they know not;
Something hath been amiss; a noble nature
May catch a wrench; would all were well; 'tis pity;
And so, intending other serious matters,
After distasteful looks, and these hard fractions,
With certain half-caps and cold-moving nods,
They froze me into silence.
