VENTIDIUS.
A noble spirit.
[They all stand ceremoniously looking on TIMON.]
TIMON.
Nay, my lords, ceremony was but devis'd at first
To set a gloss on faint deeds, hollow welcomes,
Recanting goodness, sorry ere 'tis shown;
But where there is true friendship there needs none.
Pray, sit; more welcome are ye to my fortunes
Than my fortunes to me.
[They sit.]
FIRST LORD.
My lord, we always have confess'd it.
APEMANTUS.
Ho, ho! confess'd it; hang'd it, have you not?
TIMON.
O! Apemantus, you are welcome.
APEMANTUS.
No,
You shall not make me welcome:
I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
TIMON.
Fie! thou'rt a churl; ye've got a humour there
Does not become a man; 'tis much to blame.
They say, my lords, Ira furor brevis est;
But yond man is ever angry.
Go, let him have a table by himself;
For he does neither affect company,
Nor is he fit for it, indeed.
APEMANTUS.
Let me stay at thine apperil, Timon:
I come to observe; I give thee warning on't.
TIMON.
I take no heed of thee; thou'rt an Athenian, therefore, welcome.
I myself would have no power; prithee; let my meat make thee
silent.
APEMANTUS.
I scorn thy meat; 't'would choke me, for I should
Ne'er flatter thee. O you gods! what a number
Of men eats Timon, and he sees 'em not!
It grieves me to see so many dip their meat
In one man's blood; and all the madness is,
He cheers them up too.
I wonder men dare trust themselves with men:
Methinks they should invite them without knives;
Good for their meat, and safer for their lives.
There's much example for 't; the fellow that
Sits next him now, parts bread with him, pledges
The breath of him in a divided draught,
Is the readiest man to kill him: 't has been prov'd.
If I were a huge man, I should fear to drink at meals;
Lest they should spy my wind-pipe's dangerous notes:
Great men should drink with harness on their throats.
TIMON.
My lord, in heart; and let the health go round.
SECOND LORD.
Let it flow this way, my good lord.
APEMANTUS.
Flow this way! A brave fellow! he keeps his tides well. Those
healths will make thee and thy state look ill, Timon.
Here's that which is too weak to be a sinner,
Honest water, which ne'er left man i' the mire:
This and my food are equals; there's no odds:
Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.
   Immortal gods, I crave no pelf;
   I pray for no man but myself.
   Grant I may never prove so fond
   To trust man on his oath or bond;
   Or a harlot for her weeping;
   Or a dog that seems a-sleeping;
   Or a keeper with my freedom;
   Or my friends, if I should need 'em.
   Amen. So fall to't.
   Rich men sin, and I eat root.
[Eats and drinks.]
Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus!
