  Day 1.--I, i, ii.
      Interval.
  Day 2.--I, iii.
  Day 3.--II, III.
      Interval.
  Day 4.--IV, i.
      Interval.
  Day 5.--IV, ii, iii.
      Interval.
  Day 6.--V.
This compression for the purposes of dramatic unity results in action
that is swift and throbbing with human and ethical interest.
3. _Place._ Up to the second scene of the fourth act Rome is the natural
place of action. The second and third scenes of the fourth act are at
Sardis in Asia Minor; the last act shifts to Philippi in Macedonia. The
only noteworthy deviation from historical accuracy is in making the
conference of the triumvirs take place at Rome and not at Bononia. See
note, p. 116. But there is peculiar dramatic effectiveness in placing
this fateful colloquy in the city that was the center of the political
unrest of the time.
VII. VERSIFICATION AND DICTION
BLANK VERSE
The characteristics of Shakespeare's blank verse--the rhymeless, iambic
five-stress (decasyllabic) verse, or iambic pentameter, introduced into
England by Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey, about 1540--and its proportion
to rhyme and to prose have been much used in recent years to determine
the chronological order of the plays and the development of the poet's
art. In blank verse as used by Shakespeare we have really an epitome of
the development of the measure in connection with the English drama. In
his earlier plays the blank verse is often similar to that of
_Gorboduc_, the first English tragedy. The tendency is to adhere to the
syllable-counting principle, to make the line the unit, the sentence and
phrase coinciding with the line (end-stopped verse), and to use five
perfect iambic feet to the line. In plays of the middle period, such as
_The Merchant of Venice_ and _As You Like It_, written between 1596 and
1600, the blank verse is more like that of Kyd and Marlowe, with less
monotonous regularity in the structure and an increasing tendency to
carry on the sense from one line to another without a syntactical or
rhetorical pause at the end of the line (run-on verse, _enjambement_).
Redundant syllables now abound and the melody is richer and fuller. In
Shakespeare's later plays the blank verse breaks away from all bondage
to formal line limits, and the organic continuity is found in a
succession of great metrical periods.
The verse of _Julius Caesar_ is less monotonously regular than that of
the earlier plays; it is more flexible and varied, more musical and
sonorous, but it lacks the superb movement of the verse in _Othello_,
_The Winter's Tale_, and _The Tempest_. End-stopped, normally regular
iambic pentameter lines often occur (as, for instance, I, i, 37, 41, 44,
62, 76), but everywhere are variations and deviations from the norm, and
there is an unusual number of short lines and interjectional lines of
two or three stresses. See Abbott's _A Shakespearian Grammar_, Sect.
511, 512.
RHYME
Apart from the use of rhyme in songs, lyrics, and portions of masques
(as in _The Tempest_, IV, i, 60-138), a progress from more to less rhyme
is a sure index to Shakespeare's development as a dramatist and a master
of expression. In the early _Love's Labour's Lost_ are more than one
thousand rhyming five-stress iambic lines; in _The Tempest_ are only
two; in _The Winter's Tale_ not one. _In Julius Caesar_ are found only
thirty-four rhyming lines.
