The ship being fitted out, and all things ready, we set sail the first
of September, 1659, being the same day eight-years I left my father and,
mother in Yorkshire. We sailed northward upon the coast, in order to
gain Africa, till we made Cape Augustine; from whence going farther into
the ocean, out of sight of land, we steered as though we were bound for
the isle Fernand de Norenba, leaving the islands on the east; and then
it was that we met with a terrible tempest, which continued for twelve
days successively, so that the wind carried us wheresoever they pleased.
In this perplexity one of our men died, and one man and a boy were
washed overboard. When the weather cleared up a little, we found
ourselves eleven degrees north latitude, upon the coast of Guinea. Upon
this the captain gave reasons for returning; which I opposed,
counselling him to stand away for Barbadoes, which as I supposed, might
be attained in fifteen days. So altering our course, we sailed
north-west and by west, in order to reach the Leeward Islands; but a
second storm succeeding, drove us to the westward; so that we were
justly afraid of falling into the hands of cruel savages, or the paws of
devouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of our men, early in the morning cried out,
_Land, land!_ which he had no sooner cried out, but our ship struck upon
a sand bank, and in a moment the sea broke over her in such a manner
that we expected we should all have perished immediately. We knew
nothing where we were, or upon what land we were driven; whether an
island or the main, inhabited or not inhabited; and we could not so much
as hope that the ship would hold out many minutes, without breaking in
pieces, except the wind by a miracle should turn about immediately.
While we stood looking at one another, expecting death every moment, the
mate lay a hold of the boat, and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship's side, and getting all into her, being eleven of us,
committed ourselves to God's mercy and the wild sea. And now we saw that
this last effort would not be a sufficient protection from death; so
high did the sea rise, that it was impossible the boat should live. As
to making sail, we had none; neither if we had, could we make use of
any. So that when we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league and
a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain, came rolling astern of us,
and took us with such fury, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being
swallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call upon the tremendous
name of God; much less to implore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite
mercy to receive our departing souls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when struggling in the pangs of
death; but while I was overwhelmed with water, I had the most dreadful
apprehensions imaginable. For the joys of heaven and the torments of
hell, seemed to present themselves before me in these dying agonies, and
even small space of time, as it were, between life and death. I was
going I thought I knew not whither, into a dismal gulf unknown, and as
yet unperceived, never to behold my friends, nor the light of this world
any more! Could I even have thought of annihilation, or a total
dissolution of soul as well as body, the gloomy thoughts of having no
further being, no knowledge of what we hoped for, but an eternal
_quietus_, without life or sense: even that, I say, would have been
enough to strike me with horror and confusion! I strove, however, to the
last extremity, while all my companions were overpowered and entombed in
the deep: and it was with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and retiring back, left me on the shore half dead
with the water I had taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran as
fast as I could, lest another wave should pursue me, and carry me back
again. But for all the haste I made, I could not avoid it: for the sea
came after me like a high mountain, or furious enemy; so that my
business was to hold my breath, and by raising myself on the water,
preserve it by swimming. The next dreadful wave buried me at once twenty
or thirty feet deep, but at the same time carried me with a mighty force
and swiftness toward the shore: when raising myself, I held out as well
as possible, till at length the water having spent itself, began to
return, at which I struck forward, and feeling ground with my feet, I
took to my heels again. Thus being served twice more, I was at length
dashed against a piece of a rock, in such a manner as left me senseless;
but recovering a little before the return of the wave, which, no doubt,
would then have overwhelmed me, I held fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching another run, was overtaken by
a small wave, which was soon conquered. But before any more could
overtake me, I reached the main land, where clambering up the cliffs of
the shore, tired and almost spent I sat down on the grass, free from the
dangers of the foaming ocean.
