Patriotic gallantry may perhaps contend that English women could, if they
had liked, have written as well as their neighbors; but we will leave the
consideration of that question to the reviewers of the literature that
might have been.  In the literature that actually is, we must turn to
France for the highest examples of womanly achievement in almost every
department.  We confess ourselves unacquainted with the productions of
those awful women of Italy, who held professorial chairs, and were great
in civil and canon law; we have made no researches into the catacombs of
female literature, but we think we may safely conclude that they would
yield no rivals to that which is still unburied; and here, we suppose,
the question of pre-eminence can only lie between England and France.
And to this day, Madame de Sevigne remains the single instance of a woman
who is supreme in a class of literature which has engaged the ambition of
men; Madame Dacier still reigns the queen of blue stockings, though women
have long studied Greek without shame; {33} Madame de Stael's name still
rises first to the lips when we are asked to mention a woman of great
intellectual power; Madame Roland is still the unrivalled type of the
sagacious and sternly heroic, yet lovable woman; George Sand is the
unapproached artist who, to Jean Jacques' eloquence and deep sense of
external nature, unites the clear delineation of character and the tragic
depth of passion.  These great names, which mark different epochs, soar
like tall pines amidst a forest of less conspicuous, but not less
fascinating, female writers; and beneath these, again, are spread, like a
thicket of hawthorns, eglantines, and honey-suckles, the women who are
known rather by what they stimulated men to write, than by what they
wrote themselves--the women whose tact, wit, and personal radiance
created the atmosphere of the _Salon_, where literature, philosophy, and
science, emancipated from the trammels of pedantry and technicality,
entered on a brighter stage of existence.
What were the causes of this earlier development and more abundant
manifestation of womanly intellect in France?  The primary one, perhaps,
lies in the physiological characteristics of the Gallic race--the small
brain and vivacious temperament which permit the fragile system of woman
to sustain the superlative activity requisite for intellectual
creativeness; while, on the other hand, the larger brain and slower
temperament of the English and Germans are, in the womanly organization,
generally dreamy and passive.  The type of humanity in the latter may be
grander, but it requires a larger sum of conditions to produce a perfect
specimen.  Throughout the animal world, the higher the organization, the
more frequent is the departure from the normal form; we do not often see
imperfectly developed or ill-made insects, but we rarely see a perfectly
developed, well-made man.  And thus the _physique_ of a woman may suffice
as the substratum for a superior Gallic mind, but is too thin a soil for
a superior Teutonic one.  Our theory is borne out by the fact that among
our own country-women those who distinguish themselves by literary
production more frequently approach the Gallic than the Teutonic type;
they are intense and rapid rather than comprehensive.  The woman of large
capacity can seldom rise beyond the absorption of ideas; her physical
conditions refuse to support the energy required for spontaneous
activity; the voltaic-pile is not strong enough to produce
crystallizations; phantasms of great ideas float through her mind, but
she has not the spell which will arrest them, and give them fixity.
This, more than unfavorable external circumstances, is, we think, the
reason why woman has not yet contributed any new form to art, any
discovery in science, any deep-searching inquiry in philosophy.  The
necessary physiological conditions are not present in her.  That under
more favorable circumstances in the future, these conditions may prove
compatible with the feminine organization, it would be rash to deny.  For
the present, we are only concerned with our theory so far as it presents
a physiological basis for the intellectual effectiveness of French women.
