‘I’m not a cross-grained man by natu’, I believe; and easy satisfied, I’m
sure.  I bear no ill-will against none of ’em.  I only want to live like
one of the Almighty’s creeturs.  I can’t—I don’t—and so there’s a pit dug
between me, and them that can and do.  There’s others like me.  You might
tell ’em off by hundreds and by thousands, sooner than by ones.’
Trotty knew he spoke the Truth in this, and shook his head to signify as
much.
‘I’ve got a bad name this way,’ said Fern; ‘and I’m not likely, I’m
afeared, to get a better.  ’Tan’t lawful to be out of sorts, and I AM out
of sorts, though God knows I’d sooner bear a cheerful spirit if I could.
Well!  I don’t know as this Alderman could hurt _me_ much by sending me
to jail; but without a friend to speak a word for me, he might do it; and
you see—!’ pointing downward with his finger, at the child.
‘She has a beautiful face,’ said Trotty.
‘Why yes!’ replied the other in a low voice, as he gently turned it up
with both his hands towards his own, and looked upon it steadfastly.
‘I’ve thought so, many times.  I’ve thought so, when my hearth was very
cold, and cupboard very bare.  I thought so t’other night, when we were
taken like two thieves.  But they—they shouldn’t try the little face too
often, should they, Lilian?  That’s hardly fair upon a man!’
He sunk his voice so low, and gazed upon her with an air so stern and
strange, that Toby, to divert the current of his thoughts, inquired if
his wife were living.
‘I never had one,’ he returned, shaking his head.  ‘She’s my brother’s
child: a orphan.  Nine year old, though you’d hardly think it; but she’s
tired and worn out now.  They’d have taken care on her, the
Union—eight-and-twenty mile away from where we live—between four walls
(as they took care of my old father when he couldn’t work no more, though
he didn’t trouble ’em long); but I took her instead, and she’s lived with
me ever since.  Her mother had a friend once, in London here.  We are
trying to find her, and to find work too; but it’s a large place.  Never
mind.  More room for us to walk about in, Lilly!’
Meeting the child’s eyes with a smile which melted Toby more than tears,
he shook him by the hand.
‘I don’t so much as know your name,’ he said, ‘but I’ve opened my heart
free to you, for I’m thankful to you; with good reason.  I’ll take your
advice, and keep clear of this—’
‘Justice,’ suggested Toby.
‘Ah!’ he said.  ‘If that’s the name they give him.  This Justice.  And
to-morrow will try whether there’s better fortun’ to be met with,
somewheres near London.  Good night.  A Happy New Year!’
‘Stay!’ cried Trotty, catching at his hand, as he relaxed his grip.
‘Stay!  The New Year never can be happy to me, if we part like this.  The
New Year never can be happy to me, if I see the child and you go
wandering away, you don’t know where, without a shelter for your heads.
Come home with me!  I’m a poor man, living in a poor place; but I can
give you lodging for one night and never miss it.  Come home with me!
Here!  I’ll take her!’ cried Trotty, lifting up the child.  ‘A pretty
one!  I’d carry twenty times her weight, and never know I’d got it.  Tell
me if I go too quick for you.  I’m very fast.  I always was!’  Trotty
said this, taking about six of his trotting paces to one stride of his
fatigued companion; and with his thin legs quivering again, beneath the
load he bore.
