"Murphy," the other answered the mate.
"Sir!" Mr. Pike snarled at him.
Murphy shrugged his shoulders in token that he did not understand.  It
was the poise of the man, of the three of them, the cool poise that
impressed me.
"When you address any officer on this ship you'll say 'sir,'" Mr. Pike
explained, his voice as harsh as his face was forbidding.  "Did you get
_that_?"
"Yes . . . sir," Murphy drawled with deliberate slowness.  "I gotcha."
"Sir!" Mr. Pike roared.
"Sir," Murphy answered, so softly and carelessly that it irritated the
mate to further bullyragging.
"Well, Murphy's too long," he announced.  "Nosey'll do you aboard this
craft.  Got _that_?"
"I gotcha . . . sir," came the reply, insolent in its very softness and
unconcern.  "Nosey Murphy goes . . . sir."
And then he laughed--the three of them laughed, if laughter it might be
called that was laughter without sound or facial movement.  The eyes
alone laughed, mirthlessly and cold-bloodedly.
Certainly Mr. Pike was not enjoying himself with these baffling
personalities.  He turned upon the leader, the one who had given the
warning and who looked the admixture of all that was Mediterranean and
Semitic.
"What's _your_ name?"
"Bert Rhine . . . sir," was the reply, in tones as soft and careless and
silkily irritating as the other's.
"And _you_?"--this to the remaining one, the youngest of the trio, a dark-
eyed, olive-skinned fellow with a face most striking in its cameo-like
beauty.  American-born, I placed him, of immigrants from Southern
Italy--from Naples, or even Sicily.
"Twist . . . sir," he answered, precisely in the same manner as the
others.
"Too long," the mate sneered.  "The Kid'll do you.  Got _that_?"
"I gotcha . . . sir.  Kid Twist'll do me . . . sir."
"Kid'll do!"
"Kid . . . sir."
And the three laughed their silent, mirthless laugh.  By this time Mr.
Pike was beside himself with a rage that could find no excuse for action.
"Now I'm going to tell you something, the bunch of you, for the good of
your health."  The mate's voice grated with the rage he was suppressing.
"I know your kind.  You're dirt.  D'ye get _that_?  You're dirt.  And on
this ship you'll be treated as dirt.  You'll do your work like men, or
I'll know the reason why.  The first time one of you bats an eye, or even
looks like batting an eye, he gets his.  D'ye get that?  Now get out.  Get
along for'ard to the windlass."
Mr. Pike turned on his heel, and I swung alongside of him as he moved
aft.
"What do you make of them?" I queried.
"The limit," he grunted.  "I know their kidney.  They've done time, the
three of them.  They're just plain sweepings of hell--"
Here his speech was broken off by the spectacle that greeted him on
Number Two hatch.  Sprawled out on the hatch were five or six men, among
them Larry, the tatterdemalion who had called him "old stiff" earlier in
the afternoon.  That Larry had not obeyed orders was patent, for he was
sitting with his back propped against his sea-bag, which ought to have
been in the forecastle.  Also, he and the group with him ought to have
been for'ard manning the windlass.
