  ORNULF. Nought but strife hast thou brought me, that I know.
  HIORDIS. Sterner strife may be at hand, if----
  ORNULF. I came not hither to bandy words with women!--Gunnar, hear
my last word: art willing to make atonement?
  HIORDIS (to GUNNAR). Think of thy vow!
  GUNNAR (to ORNULF). Thou hearest, I have sworn a vow, and that
must I----
  ORNULF (irritated). Enough, enough! Never shall it be said that I
made atonement for slaying in fair fight.
  HIORDIS (forcibly). Then we bid defiance to thee and thine.
  ORNULF (in rising wrath). And who has the right to crave atonement
for Jokul? Where are his kinsmen? There is none alive! Where is his
lawful avenger?
  HIORDIS. That is Gunnar, on my behalf.
  ORNULF. Gunnar! Ay, hadst thou been betrothed to him with thy
foster-father's good-will, or had he made atonement for carrying
thee away, then were he thy father's lawful avenger; but----
  DAGNY (apprehensive and imploring). Father, father!
  SIGURD (quickly). Do not speak it!
  ORNULF (raising his voice). Nay, loudly shall it be spoken! A
woman wedded by force has no lawful husband!
  GUNNAR (vehemently). Ornulf!
  HIORDIS (in a wild outburst). Flouted and shamed! (In a quivering
voice.) This--this shalt thou come to rue!
  ORNULF (continuing). A woman wedded by force is lawfully no more
than a leman! Wilt thou regain thine honour, then must thou----
  HIORDIS (controlling herself). Nay, Ornulf, I know better what is
fitting. If I am to be held as Gunnar's leman--well and good, then
must he win me honour by his deeds--by deeds so mighty that my shame
shall be shame no more! And thou, Ornulf, beware! Here our ways part,
and from this day I shall make war upon thee and thine whensoever and
wheresoever it may be; thou shalt know no safety, thou, or any whom
thou---- (Looking fiercely at KARE.) Kare! Ornulf has stood thy
friend, forsooth, and there is peace between us; but I counsel thee
not to seek thy home yet awhile; the man thou slewest has many
avengers, and it well might befall---- See, I have shown thee the
danger; thou must e'en take what follows. Come, Gunnar, we must gird
ourselves for the fight. A famous deed didst thou achieve in Iceland,
but greater deeds must here be done, if thou wouldst not have thy--
thy leman shrink with shame from thee and from herself!
  GUNNAR. Curb thyself, Hiordis; it is unseemly to bear thee thus.
  DAGNY (imploringly). Stay, foster-sister--stay; I will appease
my father.
  HIORDIS (without listening to her). Homewards, homewards! Who could
have foretold me that I should wear out my life as a worthless leman?
But if I am to bear this life of shame, ay, even a single day longer,
then must my husband do such a deed--such a deed as shall make his name
more famous than all other names of men.
    (Goes out to the right.)
  GUNNAR (softly). Sigurd, this thou must promise me, that we shall
have speech together ere thou leave the land.
