Long before I reached Wapping, I gave myself up as having lost my way,
and, abandoning myself to the narrow streets in a Turkish frame of mind,
relied on predestination to bring me somehow or other to the place I
wanted if I were ever to get there.  When I had ceased for an hour or so
to take any trouble about the matter, I found myself on a swing-bridge
looking down at some dark locks in some dirty water.  Over against me,
stood a creature remotely in the likeness of a young man, with a puffed
sallow face, and a figure all dirty and shiny and slimy, who may have
been the youngest son of his filthy old father, Thames, or the drowned
man about whom there was a placard on the granite post like a large
thimble, that stood between us.
I asked this apparition what it called the place?  Unto which, it
replied, with a ghastly grin and a sound like gurgling water in its
throat:
‘Mr. Baker’s trap.’
As it is a point of great sensitiveness with me on such occasions to be
equal to the intellectual pressure of the conversation, I deeply
considered the meaning of this speech, while I eyed the apparition—then
engaged in hugging and sucking a horizontal iron bar at the top of the
locks.  Inspiration suggested to me that Mr. Baker was the acting coroner
of that neighbourhood.
‘A common place for suicide,’ said I, looking down at the locks.
‘Sue?’ returned the ghost, with a stare.  ‘Yes!  And Poll.  Likewise
Emily.  And Nancy.  And Jane;’ he sucked the iron between each name; ‘and
all the bileing.  Ketches off their bonnets or shorls, takes a run, and
headers down here, they doos.  Always a headerin’ down here, they is.
Like one o’clock.’
‘And at about that hour of the morning, I suppose?’
‘Ah!’ said the apparition.  ‘_They_ an’t partickler.  Two ’ull do for
_them_.  Three.  All times o’ night.  On’y mind you!’  Here the
apparition rested his profile on the bar, and gurgled in a sarcastic
manner.  ‘There must be somebody comin’.  They don’t go a headerin’ down
here, wen there an’t no Bobby nor gen’ral Cove, fur to hear the splash.’
According to my interpretation of these words, I was myself a General
Cove, or member of the miscellaneous public.  In which modest character I
remarked:
‘They are often taken out, are they, and restored?’
‘I dunno about restored,’ said the apparition, who, for some occult
reason, very much objected to that word; ‘they’re carried into the
werkiss and put into a ’ot bath, and brought round.  But I dunno about
restored,’ said the apparition; ‘blow _that_!’—and vanished.
As it had shown a desire to become offensive, I was not sorry to find
myself alone, especially as the ‘werkiss’ it had indicated with a twist
of its matted head, was close at hand.  So I left Mr. Baker’s terrible
trap (baited with a scum that was like the soapy rinsing of sooty
chimneys), and made bold to ring at the workhouse gate, where I was
wholly unexpected and quite unknown.
