Buy Mary Harrison's gown by all means. You shall have mine for ever so
much money, though, if I am tolerably rich when I get home, I shall like
it very much myself.
As to the mode of our travelling to town, _I_ want to go in a
stage-coach, but Frank will not let me. As you are likely to have the
Williams and Lloyds with you next week, you would hardly find room for
us then. If any one wants anything in town, they must send their
commissions to Frank, as _I_ shall merely pass through it. The
tallow-chandler is Penlington, at the Crown and Beehive, Charles Street,
Covent Garden.
  Miss AUSTEN, Steventon, Overton, Hants.
V.
                                        ROWLING, Sunday (September 18).
MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--This morning has been spent in doubt and
deliberation, in forming plans and removing difficulties, for it ushered
in the day with an event which I had not intended should take place so
soon by a week. Frank has received his appointment on board the "Captain
John Gore," commanded by the "Triton," and will therefore be obliged to
be in town on Wednesday; and though I have every disposition in the
world to accompany him on that day, I cannot go on the uncertainty of
the Pearsons being at home, as I should not have a place to go to in
case they were from home.
I wrote to Miss P. on Friday, and hoped to receive an answer from her
this morning, which would have rendered everything smooth and easy, and
would have enabled us to leave this place to-morrow, as Frank, on first
receiving his appointment, intended to do. He remains till Wednesday
merely to accommodate me. I have written to her again to-day, and
desired her to answer it by return of post. On Tuesday, therefore, I
shall positively know whether they can receive me on Wednesday. If they
cannot, Edward has been so good as to promise to take me to Greenwich on
the Monday following, which was the day before fixed on, if that suits
them better. If I have no answer at all on Tuesday, I must suppose Mary
is not at home, and must wait till I do hear, as after having invited
her to go to Steventon with me, it will not quite do to go home and say
no more about it.
My father will be so good as to fetch home his prodigal daughter from
town, I hope, unless he wishes me to walk the hospitals, enter at the
Temple, or mount guard at St. James'. It will hardly be in Frank's power
to take me home,--nay, it certainly will not. I shall write again as
soon as I get to Greenwich.
What dreadful hot weather we have! It keeps one in a continual state of
inelegance.
If Miss Pearson should return with me, pray be careful not to expect too
much beauty. I will not pretend to say that on a first view she quite
answered the opinion I had formed of her. My mother, I am sure, will be
disappointed if she does not take great care. From what I remember of
her picture, it is no great resemblance.
