(_Connie, scenting trouble, walks across stage away from them._)
{Margaret}
The captains of industry--the banking magnates and the mergers?
{Starkweather}
Call it so. Call it what you will. Without us the country falls
into the hands of scoundrels like that man Knox and smashes to
ruin.
{Margaret}
(_Reprovingly._) Not a scoundrel, father.
{Starkweather}
He is a sentimental dreamer, a hair-brained enthusiast. It is the
foolish utterances of men like him that place the bomb and the
knife in the hand of the assassin.
{Margaret}
He is at least a good man, even if he does disagree with you on
political and industrial problems. And heaven knows that good men
are rare enough these days.
{Starkweather}
I impugn neither his morality nor his motives--only his
rationality. Really, Margaret, there is nothing inherently
vicious about him. I grant that. And it is precisely that which
makes him such a power for evil.
{Margaret}
When I think of all the misery and pain which he is trying to
remedy--I can see in him only a power for good. He is not working
for himself but for the many. That is why he has no money. You
have heaven alone knows how many millions--you don't; you have
worked for yourself.
{Starkweather}
I, too, work for the many. I give work to the many. I make
life possible for the many. I am only too keenly alive to the
responsibilities of my stewardship of wealth.
{Margaret}
But what of the child laborers working at the machines? Is that
necessary, O steward of wealth? How my heart has ached for them!
How I have longed to do something for them--to change conditions
so that it will no longer be necessary for the children to
toil, to have the playtime of childhood stolen away from them.
Theft--that is what it is, the playtime of the children coined
into profits. That is why I like Howard Knox. He calls theft
theft. He is trying to do something for those children. What are
you trying to do for them?
{Starkweather}
Sentiment. Sentiment. The question is too vast and complicated,
and you cannot understand. No woman can understand. That is
why you run to sentiment. That is what is the matter with this
Knox--sentiment. You can't run a government of ninety millions of
people on sentiment, nor on abstract ideas of justice and right.
{Margaret}
But if you eliminate justice and right, what remains?
{Starkweather}
This is a practical world, and it must be managed by practical
men--by thinkers, not by near-thinkers whose heads are addled
with the half-digested ideas of the French Encyclopedists and
Revolutionists of a century and a half ago.
(_Margaret shows signs of impatience--she is not particularly
perturbed by this passage-at-arms with her father, and is anxious
to get off her street things._)
Don't forget, my daughter, that your father knows the books
as well as any cow college graduate from Oregon. I, too, in my
student days, dabbled in theories of universal happiness and
righteousness, saw my vision and dreamed my dream. I did not know
then the weakness, and frailty, and grossness of the human clay.
But I grew out of that and into a man. Some men never grow out of
that stage. That is what is the trouble with Knox. He is still a
dreamer, and a dangerous one.
