"Indeed I owe everything to Luigi," said Angelo, affectionately.
"But for him I could not have survived our boyhood days, when we were
friendless and poor--ah, so poor! We lived from hand to mouth-lived on
the coarse fare of unwilling charity, and for weeks and weeks together
not a morsel of food passed my lips, for its character revolted me and I
could not eat it. But for Luigi I should have died. He ate for us both."
"How noble!" sighed Rowena.
"Do you hear that?" said the widow, severely, to her boys. "Let it be an
example to you--I mean you, Joe."
Joe gave his head a barely perceptible disparaging toss and said: "Et
for both. It ain't anything I'd 'a' done it."
"Hush, if you haven't got any better manners than that. You don't see
the point at all. It wasn't good food."
"I don't care--it was food, and I'd 'a' et it if it was rotten."
"Shame! Such language! Can't you understand? They were
starving--actually starving--and he ate for both, and--"
"Shucks! you gimme a chance and I'll--"
"There, now--close your head! and don't you open it again till you're
asked."
     [Angelo goes on and tells how his parents the Count and Countess had
     to fly from Florence for political reasons, and died poor in Berlin
     bereft of their great property by confiscation; and how he and Luigi
     had to travel with a freak-show during two years and suffer
     semi-starvation.]
"That hateful black-bread; but I seldom ate anything during that time;
that was poor Luigi's affair--"
"I'll never Mister him again!" cried the widow, with strong emotion,
"he's Luigi to me, from this out!"
"Thank you a thousand times, madam, a thousand times! though in truth I
don't deserve it."
"Ah, Luigi is always the fortunate one when honors are showering," said
Angelo, plaintively; "now what have I done, Mrs. Cooper, that you leave
me out? Come, you must strain a point in my favor."
"Call you Angelo? Why, certainly I will; what are you thinking of! In
the case of twins, why--"
"But, ma, you're breaking up the story--do let him go on."
"You keep still, Rowena Cooper, and he can go on all the better, I
reckon. One interruption don't hurt, it's two that makes the trouble."
"But you've added one, now, and that is three."
"Rowena! I will not allow you to talk back at me when you have got
nothing rational to say."
CHAPTER III. ANGELO IS BLUE
[After breakfast the whole village crowded in, and there was a grand
reception in honor of the twins; and at the close of it the gifted
"freak" captured everybody's admiration by sitting down at the piano and
knocking out a classic four-handed piece in great style. Then the judge
took it--or them--driving in his buggy and showed off his village.]
All along the streets the people crowded the windows and stared at the
amazing twins. Troops of small boys flocked after the buggy, excited and
yelling. At first the dogs showed no interest. They thought they merely
saw three men in a buggy--a matter of no consequence; but when they
found out the facts of the case, they altered their opinion pretty
radically, and joined the boys, expressing their minds as they came.
Other dogs got interested; indeed, all the dogs. It was a spirited sight
to see them come leaping fences, tearing around corners, swarming out
of every bystreet and alley. The noise they made was something beyond
belief--or praise. They did not seem to be moved by malice but only by
prejudice, the common human prejudice against lack of conformity. If the
twins turned their heads, they broke and fled in every direction, but
stopped at a safe distance and faced about; and then formed and came
on again as soon as the strangers showed them their back. Negroes and
farmers' wives took to the woods when the buggy came upon them suddenly,
and altogether the drive was pleasant and animated, and a refreshment
all around.
