'No, indeed,' Alice said, a little anxiously.
'And yet I don't know,' the Gnat went on in a careless tone: 'only think
how convenient it would be if you could manage to go home without it!
For instance, if the governess wanted to call you to your lessons, she
would call out "come here--," and there she would have to leave off,
because there wouldn't be any name for her to call, and of course you
wouldn't have to go, you know.'
'That would never do, I'm sure,' said Alice: 'the governess would never
think of excusing me lessons for that. If she couldn't remember my name,
she'd call me "Miss!" as the servants do.'
'Well, if she said "Miss," and didn't say anything more,' the Gnat
remarked, 'of course you'd miss your lessons. That's a joke. I wish YOU
had made it.'
'Why do you wish _I_ had made it?' Alice asked. 'It's a very bad one.'
But the Gnat only sighed deeply, while two large tears came rolling down
its cheeks.
'You shouldn't make jokes,' Alice said, 'if it makes you so unhappy.'
Then came another of those melancholy little sighs, and this time the
poor Gnat really seemed to have sighed itself away, for, when Alice
looked up, there was nothing whatever to be seen on the twig, and, as
she was getting quite chilly with sitting still so long, she got up and
walked on.
She very soon came to an open field, with a wood on the other side of
it: it looked much darker than the last wood, and Alice felt a LITTLE
timid about going into it. However, on second thoughts, she made up her
mind to go on: 'for I certainly won't go BACK,' she thought to herself,
and this was the only way to the Eighth Square.
'This must be the wood,' she said thoughtfully to herself, 'where
things have no names. I wonder what'll become of MY name when I go in?
I shouldn't like to lose it at all--because they'd have to give me
another, and it would be almost certain to be an ugly one. But then
the fun would be trying to find the creature that had got my old
name! That's just like the advertisements, you know, when people lose
dogs--"ANSWERS TO THE NAME OF 'DASH:' HAD ON A BRASS COLLAR"--just fancy
calling everything you met "Alice," till one of them answered! Only they
wouldn't answer at all, if they were wise.'
She was rambling on in this way when she reached the wood: it looked
very cool and shady. 'Well, at any rate it's a great comfort,' she
said as she stepped under the trees, 'after being so hot, to get into
the--into WHAT?' she went on, rather surprised at not being able to
think of the word. 'I mean to get under the--under the--under THIS, you
know!' putting her hand on the trunk of the tree. 'What DOES it call
itself, I wonder? I do believe it's got no name--why, to be sure it
hasn't!'
