   2 I also wish it to you: I thinke this Honorable Lord
did but try vs this other day
   1 Vpon that were my thoughts tyring when wee encountred.
I hope it is not so low with him as he made it
seeme in the triall of his seuerall Friends
   2 It should not be, by the perswasion of his new Feasting
   1 I should thinke so. He hath sent mee an earnest inuiting,
which many my neere occasions did vrge mee to
put off: but he hath coniur'd mee beyond them, and I
must needs appeare
   2 In like manner was I in debt to my importunat businesse,
but he would not heare my excuse. I am sorrie,
when he sent to borrow of mee, that my Prouision was
out
   1 I am sicke of that greefe too, as I vnderstand how all
things go
   2 Euery man heares so: what would hee haue borrowed
of you?
  1 A thousand Peeces
   2 A thousand Peeces?
  1 What of you?
  2 He sent to me sir- Heere he comes.
Enter Timon and Attendants.
  Tim. With all my heart Gentlemen both; and how
fare you?
  1 Euer at the best, hearing well of your Lordship
   2 The Swallow followes not Summer more willing,
then we your Lordship
   Tim. Nor more willingly leaues Winter, such Summer
Birds are men. Gentlemen, our dinner will not recompence
this long stay: Feast your eares with the Musicke
awhile: If they will fare so harshly o'th' Trumpets
sound: we shall too't presently
   1 I hope it remaines not vnkindely with your Lordship,
that I return'd you an empty Messenger
   Tim. O sir, let it not trouble you
   2 My Noble Lord
   Tim. Ah my good Friend, what cheere?
The Banket brought in.
  2 My most Honorable Lord, I am e'ne sick of shame,
that when your Lordship this other day sent to me, I was
so vnfortunate a Beggar
   Tim. Thinke not on't, sir
   2 If you had sent but two houres before
   Tim. Let it not cumber your better remembrance.
Come bring in all together
   2 All couer'd Dishes
   1 Royall Cheare, I warrant you
   3 Doubt not that, if money and the season can yeild it
  1 How do you? What's the newes?
  3 Alcibiades is banish'd: heare you of it?
  Both. Alcibiades banish'd?
  3 'Tis so, be sure of it
   1 How? How?
  2 I pray you vpon what?
  Tim. My worthy Friends, will you draw neere?
  3 Ile tell you more anon. Here's a Noble feast toward
  2 This is the old man still
   3 Wilt hold? Wilt hold?
  2 It do's: but time will, and so
   3 I do conceyue
   Tim. Each man to his stoole, with that spurre as hee
would to the lip of his Mistris: your dyet shall bee in all
places alike. Make not a Citie Feast of it, to let the meat
coole, ere we can agree vpon the first place. Sit, sit.
The Gods require our Thankes.
You great Benefactors, sprinkle our Society with Thankefulnesse.
For your owne guifts, make your selues prais'd: But
reserue still to giue, least your Deities be despised. Lend to each
man enough, that one neede not lend to another. For were your
Godheads to borrow of men, men would forsake the Gods. Make
the Meate be beloued, more then the Man that giues it. Let
no Assembly of Twenty, be without a score of Villaines. If there
sit twelue Women at the Table, let a dozen of them bee as they
are. The rest of your Fees, O Gods, the Senators of Athens,
together with the common legge of People, what is amisse in
them, you Gods, make suteable for destruction. For these my
present Friends, as they are to mee nothing, so in nothing blesse
them, and to nothing are they welcome.
Vncouer Dogges, and lap
