"These clocks. They're chronometers. You always read about them in sea
voyages. One of them is keeping Grinnage time, and the other is keeping
St. Louis time, like my watch. When we left St. Louis it was four in the
afternoon by my watch and this clock, and it was ten at night by this
Grinnage clock. Well, at this time of the year the sun sets at about
seven o'clock. Now I noticed the time yesterday evening when the sun
went down, and it was half-past five o'clock by the Grinnage clock, and
half past 11 A.M. by my watch and the other clock. You see, the sun rose
and set by my watch in St. Louis, and the Grinnage clock was six hours
fast; but we've come so far east that it comes within less than half an
hour of setting by the Grinnage clock now, and I'm away out--more than
four hours and a half out. You see, that meant that we was closing up
on the longitude of Ireland, and would strike it before long if we
was p'inted right--which we wasn't. No, sir, we've been
a-wandering--wandering 'way down south of east, and it's my opinion
we are in Africa. Look at this map. You see how the shoulder of Africa
sticks out to the west. Think how fast we've traveled; if we had gone
straight east we would be long past England by this time. You watch for
noon, all of you, and we'll stand up, and when we can't cast a shadow
we'll find that this Grinnage clock is coming mighty close to marking
twelve. Yes, sir, I think we're in Africa; and it's just bully."
Jim was gazing down with the glass. He shook his head and says:
"Mars Tom, I reckon dey's a mistake som'er's, hain't seen no niggers
yit."
"That's nothing; they don't live in the desert. What is that, 'way off
yonder? Gimme a glass."
He took a long look, and said it was like a black string stretched
across the sand, but he couldn't guess what it was.
"Well," I says, "I reckon maybe you've got a chance now to find out
whereabouts this balloon is, because as like as not that is one of these
lines here, that's on the map, that you call meridians of longitude, and
we can drop down and look at its number, and--"
"Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, I never see such a lunkhead as you. Did you
s'pose there's meridians of longitude on the EARTH?"
"Tom Sawyer, they're set down on the map, and you know it perfectly
well, and here they are, and you can see for yourself."
"Of course they're on the map, but that's nothing; there ain't any on
the GROUND."
"Tom, do you know that to be so?"
"Certainly I do."
"Well, then, that map's a liar again. I never see such a liar as that
map."
He fired up at that, and I was ready for him, and Jim was warming his
opinion, too, and next minute we'd 'a' broke loose on another argument,
if Tom hadn't dropped the glass and begun to clap his hands like a
maniac and sing out:
