The magician put on his red clothes and his face again, making himself
as hoary and as old as before. He took out flint and steel, and his
sticks of spice-wood and his gray powder, and made a great fire and
smoke just as he had done before. Then again he tied his handkerchief
over the fisherman's eyes. "Remember," said he, "what I told you when we
started upon our journey. Keep your mouth tight shut, for if you utter
so much as a single word you are a lost man. Now throw your leg over
what you feel and hold fast."
The fisherman had his net over one arm and his cap of gold in the other
hand; nevertheless, there he felt the same hairy thing he had felt
before. He flung his leg over it, and away he was gone through the air
like a sky-rocket.
Now, he had grown somewhat used to strange things by this time, so he
began to think he would like to see what sort of a creature it was upon
which he was riding thus through the sky. So he contrived, in spite of
his net and cap, to push up the handkerchief from over one eye. Out he
peeped, and then he saw what the strange steed was. He was riding upon a
he-goat as black as night, and in front of him was the magician riding
upon just such another, his great red robe fluttering out in the
moonlight like huge red wings.
"Great herring and little fishes!" roared the fisherman; "it is a
billy-goat!"
Instantly goats, old man, and all were gone like a flash. Down fell the
fisherman through the empty sky, whirling over and over and around and
around like a frog. He held tightly to his net, but away flew his fur
cap, the golden money falling in a shower like sparks of yellow light.
Down he fell and down he fell, until his head spun like a top.
By good-luck his house was just below, with its thatch of soft rushes.
Into the very middle of it he tumbled, and right through the
thatch--bump!--into the room below.
The good wife was in bed, snoring away for dear life; but such a noise
as the fisherman made coming into the house was enough to wake the dead.
Up she jumped, and there she sat, staring and winking with sleep, and
with her brains as addled as a duck's egg in a thunderstorm.
"There!" said the fisherman, as he gathered himself up and rubbed his
shoulder, "that is what comes of following a woman's advice!"
[Illustration: THE WINDS, THE BIRDS, AND THE TELEGRAPH WIRES]
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 3: Reprinted by special permission from _Twilight Land,_ by
Howard Pyle. Copyright by Harper & Brothers]
THE WINDS, THE BIRDS, AND THE TELEGRAPH WIRES[4]
LONG, long ago, a hundred times as long as any one can remember, the
Great Earth King became so very, very busy about a great many things
that there were several things that he could not do. So he sat himself
down and rested his great head upon his hand, and thought, and thought,
and thought until he decided that he must have some assistance. He would
advertise for some messengers! So he seized a great brush, as big as a
church steeple, dipped it into the red and golden sunset light, and
wrote in big letters high on the sky, that every one far and near could
read:
