"Then I step in and save the prince, and persuade him to come and pay a
visit to our mutual friend, Maria Alexandrovna (of whom the prince told me
that she is the most delightful and charming woman he has ever known). And
so here we are, and the prince is now upstairs attending to his wigs and
so on, with the help of his valet, whom he took along with him, and whom
he always would and will take with him wherever he goes; because he would
sooner die than appear before ladies without certain little secret touches
which require the valet's hand. There you are, that's the whole story."
"Why, what a humourist he is, isn't he, Zina?" said the lady of the house.
"How beautifully you told the story! Now, listen, Paul: one question;
explain to me clearly how you are related to the prince; you call him
uncle!"
"I really don't know, Maria Alexandrovna; seventh, cousin I think, or
something of that sort. My aunt knows all about it; it was she who made me
go down to see him at Donchanova, when I got kicked out by Stepanida! I
simply call him 'uncle,' and he answers me; that's about all our
relationship."
"Well, I repeat, it was Providence that made you bring him straight to my
house as you did. I tremble to think of what might have happened to the
poor dear prince if somebody else, and not I, had got hold of him! Why,
they'd have torn him to pieces among them, and picked his bones! They'd
have pounced on him as on a new-found mine; they might easily have robbed
him; they are capable of it. You have no idea, Paul, of the depth of
meanness and greediness to which the people of this place have fallen!"
"But, my dear good Maria Alexandrovna--as if he would ever _think_ of
bringing him anywhere but to yourself," said the widow, pouring out a cup
of tea; "you don't suppose he would have taken the prince to Mrs.
Antipova's, surely, do you?"
"Dear me, how very long he is coming out," said Maria Alexandrovna,
impatiently rising from her chair; "it really is quite strange!"
"Strange! what, of uncle? Oh dear, no! he'll probably be another five
hours or so putting himself together; besides, since he has no memory
whatever, he has very likely quite forgotten that he has come to your
house! Why, he's a most extraordinary man, Maria Alexandrovna."
"Oh don't, don't! Don't talk like that!"
"Why not, Maria Alexandrovna? He is a lump of composition, not a man at
all! Remember, you haven't seen him for six years, and I saw him half an
hour ago. He is half a corpse; he's only the memory of a man; they've
forgotten to bury him! Why, his eye is made of glass, and his leg of cork,
and he goes on wires; he even talks on wires!"
Maria Alexandrovna's face took a serious expression. "What nonsense you
talk," she said; "and aren't you ashamed of yourself, you, a young man and
a relation too--to talk like that of a most honourable old nobleman! not to
mention his incomparable personal goodness and kindness" (her voice here
trembled with emotion). "He is a relic, a chip, so to speak, of our old
aristocracy. I know, my dear young friend, that all this flightiness on
your part, proceeds from those 'new ideas' of which you are so fond of
talking; but, goodness me, I've seen a good deal more of life than you
have: I'm a mother; and though I see the greatness and nobleness, if you
like, of these 'new ideas,' yet I can understand the practical side of
things too! Now, this gentleman is an old man, and that is quite enough to
render him ridiculous in your eyes. You, who talk of emancipating your
serfs, and 'doing something for posterity,' indeed! I tell you what it is,
it's your Shakespeare! You stuff yourself full of Shakespeare, who has
long ago outlived his time, my dear Paul; and who, if he lived now, with
all his wisdom, would never make head or tail of our way of life!"
