MICH. An excellent training to make him a tyrant in his turn; but is
there any news, I say?
PRES. A council is to be held to-morrow, at four o'clock, on some secret
business the spies cannot find out.
MICH. A council in a king's palace is sure to be about some bloody work
or other. But in what room is this council to be held?
PRES. (_reading from letter_). In the yellow tapestry room called after
the Empress Catherine.
MICH. I care not for such long-sounding names. I would know where it is.
PRES. I cannot tell, Michael. I know more about the insides of prisons
than of palaces.
MICH. (_speaking suddenly to ALEXIS_). Where is this room, Alexis?
ALEXIS. It is on the first floor, looking out on to the inner courtyard.
But why do you ask, Michael?
MICH. Nothing, nothing, boy! I merely take a great interest in the
Czar's life and movements, and I knew you could tell me all about the
palace. Every poor student of medicine in Moscow knows all about king's
houses. It is their duty, is it not?
ALEXIS (_aside_). Can Michael suspect me? There is something strange in
his manner to-night. Why doesn't she come? The whole fire of revolution
seems fallen into dull ashes when she is not here.
[5]MICH. Have you cured many patients lately, at your hospital, boy?
ALEX. There is one who lies sick to death I would fain cure, but cannot.
MICH. Ay, and who is that?
ALEX. Russia, our mother.
MICH. The curing of Russia is surgeon's business, and must be done by
the knife. I like not your method of medicine.[5]
PRES. Professor, we have read the proofs of your last article; it is
very good indeed.
MICH. What is it about, Professor?
PROFESSOR. The subject, my good brother, is assassination considered as
a method of political reform.
MICH. I think little of pen and ink in revolutions. One dagger will do
more than a hundred epigrams. Still, let us read this scholar's last
production. Give it to me. I will read it myself.
PROF. Brother, you never mind your stops; let Alexis read it.
MICH. Ay! he is as tripping of speech as if he were some young
aristocrat; but for my own part I care not for the stops so that the
sense be plain.
ALEX. (_reading_). "The past has belonged to the tyrant, and he has
defiled it; ours is the future, and we shall make it holy." Ay! let us
make the future holy; let there be one revolution at least which is not
bred in crime, nurtured in murder!
MICH. They have spoken to us by the sword, and by the sword we shall
answer! You are too delicate for us, Alexis. There should be none here
but men whose hands are rough with labour or red with blood.
PRES. Peace, Michael, peace! He is the bravest heart among us.
MICH. (_aside_). He will need to be brave to-night.
