CZARE. There were three men strangled, Sire.
CZAR. There should have been three[11] thousand. I would to God that
this people had but one neck that I might strangle them with one noose!
Did they tell anything? whom did they implicate? what did they confess?
CZARE. Nothing, Sire.
CZAR. They should have been tortured then; why weren't they tortured?
Must I always be fighting in the dark? Am I never to know from what root
these traitors spring?
CZARE. What root should there be of discontent among the people but
tyranny and injustice amongst their rulers?
CZAR. What did you say, boy? tyranny! tyranny! Am I a tyrant? I'm not. I
love the people. I'm their father. I'm called so in every official
proclamation. Have a care, boy; have a care. You don't seem to be cured
yet of your foolish tongue. (_Goes over to PRINCE PAUL, and puts his
hand on his shoulder._) Prince Paul, tell me were there many people
there this morning to see the Nihilists hung?
PRINCE PAUL. Hanging is of course a good deal less of a novelty in
Russia now, Sire, than it was three or four years ago; and you know how
easily the people get tired even of their best amusements. But the
square and the tops of the houses were really quite crowded, were they
not, Prince? (_To the CZAREVITCH who takes no notice._)
CZAR. That's right; all loyal citizens should be there. It shows them
what to look forward to. Did you arrest any one in the crowd?
PRINCE PAUL. Yes, Sire, a woman for cursing your name. (_The CZAREVITCH
starts anxiously._) She was the mother of the two criminals.
CZAR (_looking at CZAREVITCH_). She should have blessed me for having
rid her of her children. Send her to prison.
CZARE. The prisons of Russia are too full already, Sire. There is no
room in them for any more victims.
[12]CZAR. They don't die fast enough, then. You should put more of them
into one cell at once. You don't keep them long enough in the mines. If
you do they're sure to die; but you're all too merciful. I'm too
merciful myself. Send her to Siberia.[12] She is sure to die on the way.
(_Enter an AIDE-DE-CAMP._) Who's that? Who's that?
AIDE-DE-CAMP. A letter for his Imperial Majesty.
CZAR (_to PRINCE PAUL_). I won't open it. There may be something in it.
PRINCE PAUL. It would be a very disappointing letter, Sire, if there
wasn't. (_Takes letter himself, and reads it._)
PRINCE PETRO. (_to COUNT ROUVALOFF_). It must be some sad news. I know
that smile too well.
PRINCE PAUL. From the Chief of the Police at Archangel, Sire. "The
Governor of the province was shot this morning by a woman as he was
entering the courtyard of his own house. The assassin has been seized."
CZAR. I never trusted the people of Archangel. It's a nest of Nihilists
and conspirators. Take away their saints; they don't deserve them.
