And, finally, Mr. O'Neil says: "The humane and generous treatment which
this city has accorded the great army of homeless unfortunates has made
it the victim of wholesale imposition, and this well-intended policy of
kindness has resulted in making Chicago the winter Mecca of a vast and
undesirable floating population."  That is to say, because of her
kindness, Chicago had more than her fair share of tramps; because she was
humane and generous she suffered whole-sale imposition.  From this we
must conclude that it does not do to be _humane_ and _generous_ to our
fellow-men--when they are tramps.  Mr. O'Neil is right, and that this is
no sophism it is the intention of this article, among other things, to
show.
In a general way we may draw the following inferences from the remarks of
Mr. O'Neil: (1) The tramp is stronger than organized society and cannot
be put down; (2) The tramp is "shabby," "tattered," "homeless,"
"unfortunate"; (3) There is a "vast" number of tramps; (4) Very few
tramps are willing to do honest work; (5) Those tramps who are willing to
do honest work have to hunt very hard to find it; (6) The tramp is
undesirable.
To this last let the contention be appended that the tramp is only
_personally_ undesirable; that he is _negatively_ desirable; that the
function he performs in society is a negative function; and that he is
the by-product of economic necessity.
It is very easy to demonstrate that there are more men than there is work
for men to do.  For instance, what would happen tomorrow if one hundred
thousand tramps should become suddenly inspired with an overmastering
desire for work?  It is a fair question.  "Go to work" is preached to the
tramp every day of his life.  The judge on the bench, the pedestrian in
the street, the housewife at the kitchen door, all unite in advising him
to go to work.  So what would happen tomorrow if one hundred thousand
tramps acted upon this advice and strenuously and indomitably sought
work?  Why, by the end of the week one hundred thousand workers, their
places taken by the tramps, would receive their time and be "hitting the
road" for a job.
Ella Wheeler Wilcox unwittingly and uncomfortably demonstrated the
disparity between men and work. {1}  She made a casual reference, in a
newspaper column she conducts, to the difficulty two business men found
in obtaining good employees.  The first morning mail brought her
seventy-five applications for the position, and at the end of two weeks
over two hundred people had applied.
Still more strikingly was the same proposition recently demonstrated in
San Francisco.  A sympathetic strike called out a whole federation of
trades' unions.  Thousands of men, in many branches of trade, quit
work,--draymen, sand teamsters, porters and packers, longshoremen,
stevedores, warehousemen, stationary engineers, sailors, marine firemen,
stewards, sea-cooks, and so forth,--an interminable list.  It was a
strike of large proportions.  Every Pacific coast shipping city was
involved, and the entire coasting service, from San Diego to Puget Sound,
was virtually tied up.  The time was considered auspicious.  The
Philippines and Alaska had drained the Pacific coast of surplus labor.
It was summer-time, when the agricultural demand for laborers was at its
height, and when the cities were bare of their floating populations.  And
yet there remained a body of surplus labor sufficient to take the places
of the strikers.  No matter what occupation, sea-cook or stationary
engineer, sand teamster or warehouseman, in every case there was an idle
worker ready to do the work.  And not only ready but anxious.  They
fought for a chance to work.  Men were killed, hundreds of heads were
broken, the hospitals were filled with injured men, and thousands of
assaults were committed.  And still surplus laborers, "scabs," came
forward to replace the strikers.
