The reward is likewise proportioned.  The strong, fit worker in a skilled
trade, where there is little labor pressure, is well compensated.  He is
a king compared with his less fortunate brothers in the unskilled
occupations where the labor pressure is great.  The mediocre worker not
only is forced to be idle a large portion of the time, but when employed
is forced to accept a pittance.  A dollar a day on some days and nothing
on other days will hardly support a man and wife and send children to
school.  And not only do the masters bear heavily upon him, and his own
kind struggle for the morsel at his mouth, but all skilled and organized
labor adds to his woe.  Union men do not scab on one another, but in
strikes, or when work is slack, it is considered "fair" for them to
descend and take away the work of the common laborers.  And take it away
they do; for, as a matter of fact, a well-fed, ambitious machinist or a
core-maker will transiently shovel coal better than an ill-fed,
spiritless laborer.
Thus there is no encouragement for the unfit, inefficient, and mediocre.
Their very inefficiency and mediocrity make them helpless as cattle and
add to their misery.  And the whole tendency for such is downward, until,
at the bottom of the social pit, they are wretched, inarticulate beasts,
living like beasts, breeding like beasts, dying like beasts.  And how do
they fare, these creatures born mediocre, whose heritage is neither
brains nor brawn nor endurance?  They are sweated in the slums in an
atmosphere of discouragement and despair.  There is no strength in
weakness, no encouragement in foul air, vile food, and dank dens.  They
are there because they are so made that they are not fit to be higher up;
but filth and obscenity do not strengthen the neck, nor does chronic
emptiness of belly stiffen the back.
For the mediocre there is no hope.  Mediocrity is a sin.  Poverty is the
penalty of failure,--poverty, from whose loins spring the criminal and
the tramp, both failures, both discouraged workers.  Poverty is the
inferno where ignorance festers and vice corrodes, and where the
physical, mental, and moral parts of nature are aborted and denied.
That the charge of rashness in splashing the picture be not incurred, let
the following authoritative evidence be considered: first, the work and
wages of mediocrity and inefficiency, and, second, the habitat:
The New York Sun of February 28, 1901, describes the opening of a factory
in New York City by the American Tobacco Company.  Cheroots were to be
made in this factory in competition with other factories which refused to
be absorbed by the trust.  The trust advertised for girls.  The crowd of
men and boys who wanted work was so great in front of the building that
the police were forced with their clubs to clear them away.  The wage
paid the girls was $2.50 per week, sixty cents of which went for car
fare. {4}
