All night, with burning brands, he fought off the hungry pack.  When he
dozed despite himself, the whimpering and snarling of the dogs aroused
him.  Morning came, but for the first time the light of day failed to
scatter the wolves.  The man waited in vain for them to go.  They
remained in a circle about him and his fire, displaying an arrogance of
possession that shook his courage born of the morning light.
He made one desperate attempt to pull out on the trail.  But the moment
he left the protection of the fire, the boldest wolf leaped for him, but
leaped short.  He saved himself by springing back, the jaws snapping
together a scant six inches from his thigh.  The rest of the pack was now
up and surging upon him, and a throwing of firebrands right and left was
necessary to drive them back to a respectful distance.
Even in the daylight he did not dare leave the fire to chop fresh wood.
Twenty feet away towered a huge dead spruce.  He spent half the day
extending his campfire to the tree, at any moment a half dozen burning
faggots ready at hand to fling at his enemies.  Once at the tree, he
studied the surrounding forest in order to fell the tree in the direction
of the most firewood.
The night was a repetition of the night before, save that the need for
sleep was becoming overpowering.  The snarling of his dogs was losing its
efficacy.  Besides, they were snarling all the time, and his benumbed and
drowsy senses no longer took note of changing pitch and intensity.  He
awoke with a start.  The she-wolf was less than a yard from him.
Mechanically, at short range, without letting go of it, he thrust a brand
full into her open and snarling mouth.  She sprang away, yelling with
pain, and while he took delight in the smell of burning flesh and hair,
he watched her shaking her head and growling wrathfully a score of feet
away.
But this time, before he dozed again, he tied a burning pine-knot to his
right hand.  His eyes were closed but few minutes when the burn of the
flame on his flesh awakened him.  For several hours he adhered to this
programme.  Every time he was thus awakened he drove back the wolves with
flying brands, replenished the fire, and rearranged the pine-knot on his
hand.  All worked well, but there came a time when he fastened the pine-
knot insecurely.  As his eyes closed it fell away from his hand.
He dreamed.  It seemed to him that he was in Fort McGurry.  It was warm
and comfortable, and he was playing cribbage with the Factor.  Also, it
seemed to him that the fort was besieged by wolves.  They were howling at
the very gates, and sometimes he and the Factor paused from the game to
listen and laugh at the futile efforts of the wolves to get in.  And
then, so strange was the dream, there was a crash.  The door was burst
open.  He could see the wolves flooding into the big living-room of the
fort.  They were leaping straight for him and the Factor.  With the
bursting open of the door, the noise of their howling had increased
tremendously.  This howling now bothered him.  His dream was merging into
something else--he knew not what; but through it all, following him,
persisted the howling.
