Jocint was not the only one who had seen Beauregard fastened at
Morico's door. Hosmer was making a tour of inspection that afternoon
through the woods, and when he came suddenly upon Therese some moments
after she had quitted the cabin, the meeting was not so wholly
accidental as that lady fancied it was.
If there could be a situation in which Hosmer felt more than in
another at ease in Therese's company, it was the one in which he found
himself. There was no need to seek occupation for his hands, those
members being sufficiently engaged with the management of his horse.
His eyes found legitimate direction in following the various details
which a rider is presumed to observe; and his manner freed from the
necessity of self direction took upon itself an ease which was
occasional enough to mark it as noteworthy.
She told him of her visit. At mention of Jocint's name he reddened:
then followed the acknowledgment that the youth in question had caused
him to lose his temper and forget his dignity during the afternoon.
"In what way?" asked Therese. "It would be better to dismiss him than
to rail at him. He takes reproof badly and is extremely treacherous."
"Mill hands are not plentiful, or I should send him off at once. Oh,
he is an unbearable fellow. The men told me of a habit he has of
letting the logs roll off the carriage, causing a good deal of
annoyance and delay in replacing them. I was willing enough to believe
it might be accidental, until I caught him today in the very act. I am
thankful not to have knocked him down."
Hosmer felt exhilarated. The excitement of his encounter with Jocint
had not yet died away; this softly delicious atmosphere; the subtle
aroma of the pines; his unlooked for meeting with Therese--all
combined to stir him with unusual emotions.
"What a splendid creature Beauregard is," he said, smoothing the
animal's glossy mane with the end of his riding whip. The horses were
walking slowly in step, and close together.
"Of course he is," said Therese proudly, patting the arched neck of
her favorite. "Beauregard is a blooded animal, remember. He quite
throws poor Nelson in the shade," looking pityingly at Hosmer's
heavily built iron-grey.
"Don't cast any slurs on Nelson, Mrs. Lafirme. He's done me service
that's worthy of praise--worthy of better treatment than he gets."
"I know. He deserves the best, poor fellow. When you go away you
should turn him out to pasture, and forbid any one to use him."
"It would be a good idea; but--I'm not so certain about going away."
"Oh I beg your pardon. I fancied your movements were directed by some
unchangeable laws."
"Like the planets in their orbits? No, there is no absolute need of my
going; the business which would have called me away can be done as
readily by letter. If I heed my inclination it certainly holds me
here."
"I don't understand that. It's natural enough that I should be fond of
the country; but you--I don't believe you've been away for three
months, have you? and city life certainly has its attractions."
