Placide was not very well acquainted with the city; but that made no
difference to him so long as he was at Euphrasie's side. His brother
Hector, who lived in some obscure corner of the town, would willingly
have made his knowledge a more intimate one; but Placide did not choose
to learn the lessons that Hector was ready to teach. He asked nothing
better than to walk with Euphrasie along the streets, holding her
parasol at an agreeable angle over her pretty head, or to sit beside
her in the evening at the play, sharing her frank delight.
When the night of the Mardi Gras ball came, he felt like a lost spirit
during the hours he was forced to remain away from her. He stood in
the dense crowd on the street gazing up at her, where she sat on the
club-house balcony amid a bevy of gayly dressed women. It was not easy
to distinguish her, but he could think of no more agreeable occupation
than to stand down there on the street trying to do so.
She seemed during all this pleasant time to be entirely his own,
too. It made him very fierce to think of the possibility of her not
being entirely his own. But he had no cause whatever to think this.
She had grown conscious and thoughtful of late about him and their
relationship. She often communed with herself, and as a result tried
to act toward him as an engaged girl would toward her fiance. Yet a
wistful look came sometimes into the brown eyes when she walked the
streets with Placide, and eagerly scanned the faces of passers-by.
Offdean had written her a note, very studied, very formal, asking
to see her a certain day and hour, to consult about matters on the
plantation, saying he had found it so difficult to obtain a word with
her, that he was forced to adopt this means, which he trusted would not
be offensive.
This seemed perfectly right to Euphrasie. She agreed to see him
one afternoon--the day before leaving town--in the long, stately
drawing-room, quite alone.
It was a sleepy day, too warm for the season. Gusts of moist air
were sweeping lazily through the long corridors, rattling the slats
of the half-closed green shutters, and bringing a delicious perfume
from the courtyard where old Chariot was watering the spreading palms
and brilliant parterres. A group of little children had stood awhile
quarreling noisily under the windows, but had moved on down the street
and left quietness reigning.
Offdean had not long to wait before Euphrasie came to him. She had
lost some of that ease which had marked her manner during their first
acquaintance. Now, when she seated herself before him, she showed a
disposition to plunge at once into the subject that had brought him
there. He was willing enough that it should play some role, since it
had been his pretext for coming; but he soon dismissed it, and with it
much restraint that had held him till now. He simply looked into her
eyes, with a gaze that made her shiver a little, and began to complain
because she was going away next day and he had seen nothing of her;
because he had wanted to do so many things when she came--why had she
not let him?
