He had heard Euphrasie tell the man she did not love him, but what of
that? Had he not heard her sobs, and guessed what her distress was? It
needed no very flexible mind to guess as much, when a hundred signs
besides, unheeded before, came surging to his memory. Jealousy held
him, and rage and despair.
Offdean, as he rode along under the trees in apathetic despondency,
heard some one approaching him on horseback, and turned aside to make
room in the narrow pathway.
It was not a moment for punctilious scruples, and Placide had not been
hindered by such from sending a bullet into the back of his rival. The
only thing that stayed him was that Offdean must know why he had to die.
"Mr. Offdean," Placide said, reining his horse with one hand, while he
held his pistol openly in the other, "I was in my room 'w'ile ago, and
yeared w'at you said to Euphrasie. I would 'a' killed you then if she
had n' been 'longside o' you. I could 'a' killed you jus' now w'en I
come up behine you."
"Well, why did n't you?" asked Offdean, meanwhile gathering his
faculties to think how he had best deal with this madman.
"Because I wanted you to know who done it, an' w'at he done it for."
"Mr. Santien, I suppose to a person in your frame of mind it will make
no difference to know that I'm unarmed. But if you make any attempt
upon my life, I shall certainly defend myself as best I can."
"Defen' yo'se'f, then."
"You must be mad," said Offdean, quickly, and looking straight into
Placide's eyes, "to want to soil your happiness with murder. I thought
a creole knew better than that how to love a woman."
"By----! are you goin' to learn me how to love a woman?"
"No, Placide," said Offdean eagerly, as they rode slowly along; "your
own honor is going to tell you that. The way to love a woman is to
think first of her happiness. If you love Euphrasie, you must go to her
clean. I love her myself enough to want you to do that. I shall leave
this place to-morrow; you will never see me again if I can help it. Is
n't that enough for you? I'm going to turn here and leave you. Shoot me
in the back if you like; but I know you won't." And Offdean held out
his hand.
"I don' want to shake han's with you," said Placide sulkily. "Go 'way
f'om me." He stayed motionless watching Offdean ride away. He looked at
the pistol in his hand, and replaced it slowly in his pocket; then he
removed the broad felt hat which he wore, and wiped away the moisture
that had gathered upon his forehead.
Offdean's words had touched some chord within him and made it vibrant;
but they made him hate the man no less.
"The way to love a woman is to think firs' of her happiness," he
muttered reflectively. "He thought a creole knew how to love. Does he
reckon he's goin' to learn a creole how to love?"
