Some loafer whom he had snubbed remarked one day in town that
Laballiere had more use for a free mulatto than he had for a white
man. It was a sort of catching thing to say, and suggestive, and was
repeated with the inevitable embellishments.
One morning when Laballiere sat eating his solitary breakfast, and
being waited upon by the queenly Madame Giestin and a brace of her
weazened boys, Giestin himself came into the room. He was about half
the size of his wife, puny and timid. He stood beside the table,
twirling his felt hat aimlessly and balancing himself insecurely on his
high-pointed boot-heels.
"Mr. Laballiere," he said, "I reckon I tell you; it's betta you git
shed o' me en' my fambly. Jis like you want, yas."
"What in the name of common sense are you talking about?" asked
Laballiere, looking up abstractedly from his New Orleans paper. Giestin
wriggled uncomfortably.
"It 's'heap o' story goin' roun' 'bout you, if you want b'lieve me."
And he snickered and looked at his wife, who thrust the end of her
shawl into her mouth and walked from the room with a tread like the
Empress Eugenie's, in that elegant woman's palmiest days.
"Stories!" echoed Laballiere, his face the picture of astonishment.
"Who--where--what stories?"
"Yon'a in town en' all about. It's heap o' tale goin' roun', yas. They
say how come you mighty fon' o' mulatta. You done shoshiate wid de
mulatta down yon'a on de suga plantation, tell you can't res' lessen
it's mulatta roun' you."
Laballiere had a distressingly quick temper. His fist, which was
a strong one, came down upon the wobbling table with a crash that
sent half of Madame Giestin's crockery bouncing and crashing to the
floor. He swore an oath that sent Madame Giestin and her father and
grandmother, who were all listening in the next room, into suppressed
convulsions of mirth.
"Oh, ho! so I'm not to associate with whom I please in Natchitoches
parish. We'll see about that. Draw up your chair, Giestin. Call
your wife and your grandmother and the rest of the tribe, and we 'll
breakfast together. By thunder! if I want to hobnob with mulattoes, or
negroes or Choctaw Indians or South Sea savages, whose business is it
but my own?"
"I don' know, me. It's jis like I tell you, Mr. Laballiere," and
Giestin selected a huge key from an assortment that hung against the
wall, and left the room.
A half hour later, Laballiere had not yet recovered his senses. He
appeared suddenly at the door of the schoolhouse, holding by the
shoulder one of Giestin's boys. Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph stood at
the opposite extremity of the room. Her sun-bonnet hung upon the wall,
now, so Laballiere could have seen how charming she was, had he not at
the moment been blinded by stupidity. Her blue eyes that were fringed
with dark lashes reflected astonishment at seeing him there. Her hair
was dark like her lashes, and waved softly about her smooth, white
forehead.
