She could hardly believe the man who met her to be the Hector of
old. His black hair was dashed with gray on the temples; he wore a
short, parted beard and a small moustache that curled. From the crown
of his glossy silk hat down to his trimly-gaitered feet, his attire
was faultless. Suzanne knew her Natchitoches, and she had been to
Shreveport and even penetrated as far as Marshall, Texas, but in all
her travels she had never met a man to equal Hector in the elegance of
his mien.
They entered a cab, and seemed to drive for an interminable time
through the streets, mostly over cobble-stones that rendered
conversation difficult. Nevertheless he talked incessantly, while she
peered from the windows to catch what glimpses she could, through the
night, of that New Orleans of which she had heard so much. The sounds
were bewildering; so were the lights, that were uneven, too, serving to
make the patches of alternating gloom more mysterious.
She had not thought of asking him where he was taking her. And it was
only after they crossed Canal and had penetrated some distance into
Royal Street, that he told her. He was taking her to a friend of his,
the dearest little woman in town. That was Maman Chavan, who was going
to board and lodge her for a ridiculously small consideration.
Maman Chavan lived within comfortable walking distance of Canal
Street, on one of those narrow, intersecting streets between Royal and
Chartres. Her house was a tiny, single-story one, with overhanging
gable, heavily shuttered door and windows and three wooden steps
leading down to the banquette. A small garden flanked it on one side,
quite screened from outside view by a high fence, over which appeared
the tops of orange trees and other luxuriant shrubbery.
She was waiting for them--a lovable, fresh-looking, white-haired,
black-eyed, small, fat little body, dressed all in black. She
understood no English; which made no difference. Suzanne and Hector
spoke but French to each other.
Hector did not tarry a moment longer than was needed to place his young
friend and charge in the older woman's care. He would not even stay to
take a bite of supper with them. Maman Chavan watched him as he hurried
down the steps and out into the gloom. Then she said to Suzanne: "That
man is an angel, Mademoiselle, _un ange du bon Dieu_."
       *       *       *       *       *
"Women, my dear Maman Chavan, you know how it is with me in regard to
women. I have drawn a circle round my heart, so--at pretty long range,
mind you--and there is not one who gets through it, or over it or under
it."
"_Blagueur, va!_" laughed Maman Chavan, replenishing her glass from the
bottle of sauterne.
It was Sunday morning. They were breakfasting together on the pleasant
side gallery that led by a single step down to the garden. Hector came
every Sunday morning, an hour or so before noon, to breakfast with
them. He always brought a bottle of sauterne, a pate, or a mess of
artichokes or some tempting bit of _charcuterie_. Sometimes he had to
wait till the two women returned from hearing mass at the cathedral.
He did not go to mass himself. They were both making a Novena on that
account, and had even gone to the expense of burning a round dozen of
candles before the good St. Joseph, for his conversion. When Hector
accidentally discovered the fact, he offered to pay for the candles,
and was distressed at not being permitted to do so.
