"Married to Placide!" he echoed, as if striving to understand,--to
grasp some part of his own stupendous folly and blindness. "I knew
nothing of it," he said hoarsely. "Married to Placide! I would never
have spoken to you as I did, if I had known. You believe me, I hope?
Please say that you forgive me."
He spoke with long silences between his utterances.
"Oh, there is n' anything to fo'give. You've only made a mistake.
Please leave me, Mr. Offdean. Papa is out in the fiel', I think, if you
would like to speak with him. Placide is somew'ere on the place."
"I shall mount my horse and go see what work has been done," said
Offdean, rising. An unusual pallor had overspread his face, and his
mouth was drawn with suppressed pain. "I must turn my fool's errand to
some practical good," he added, with a sad attempt at playfulness; and
with no further word he walked quickly away.
She listened to his going. Then all the wretchedness of the past
months, together with the sharp distress of the moment, voiced itself
in a sob: "O God--O my God, he'p me!"
But she could not stay out there in the broad day for any chance comer
to look upon her uncovered sorrow.
Placide heard her rise and goto her room. When he had heard the key
turn in the lock, he got up, and with quiet deliberation prepared to
go out. He drew on his boots, then his coat. He took his pistol from
the dressing-bureau, where he had placed it a while before, and after
examining its chambers carefully, thrust it into his pocket. He had
certain work to do with the weapon before night. But for Euphrasie's
presence he might have accomplished it very surely a moment ago, when
the hound--as he called him--stood outside his window. He did not wish
her to know anything of his movements, and he left his room as quietly
as possible, and mounted his horse, as Offdean had done.
"La Chatte," called Placide to the old woman, who stood in her yard at
the wash-tub, "w'ich way did that man go?"
"W'at man dat? I is n' studyin' 'bout no mans; I got 'nough to do wid
dis heah washin'. 'Fo' God, I don' know w'at man you's talkin' 'bout"--
"La Chatte, w'ich way did that man go? Quick, now!" with the
deliberate tone and glance that had always quelled her.
"Ef you 's talkin' 'bout dat Noo Orleans man, I could 'a' tole you dat.
He done tuck de road to de cocoa-patch," plunging her black arms into
the tub with unnecessary energy and disturbance.
"That's enough. I know now he's gone into the woods. You always was a
liar, La Chatte."
"Dat his own lookout, de smoove-tongue' raskil," soliloquized the woman
a moment later. "I done said he did n' have no call to come heah,
caperin' roun' Miss 'Phrasie."
Placide was possessed by only one thought, which was a want as
well,--to put an end to this man who had come between him and his love.
It was the same brute passion that drives the beast to slay when he
sees the object of his own desire laid hold of by another.
