I am very grand indeed; I had the dignity of dropping out my mother's
laudanum last night. I carry about the keys of the wine and closet, and
twice since I began this letter have had orders to give in the kitchen.
Our dinner was very good yesterday, and the chicken boiled perfectly
tender; therefore I shall not be obliged to dismiss Nanny on that
account.
Almost everything was unpacked and put away last night. Nanny chose to
do it, and I was not sorry to be busy. I have unpacked the gloves, and
placed yours in your drawer. Their color is light and pretty, and I
believe exactly what we fixed on.
Your letter was chaperoned here by one from Mrs. Cooke, in which she
says that "Battleridge" is not to come out before January, and she is so
little satisfied with Cawthorn's dilatoriness that she never means to
employ him again.
Mrs. Hall, of Sherborne, was brought to bed yesterday of a dead child,
some weeks before she expected, owing to a fright. I suppose she
happened unawares to look at her husband.
There has been a great deal of rain here for this last fortnight, much
more than in Kent, and indeed we found the roads all the way from
Staines most disgracefully dirty. Steventon lane has its full share of
it, and I don't know when I shall be able to get to Deane.
I hear that Martha is in better looks and spirits than she has enjoyed
for a long time, and I flatter myself she will now be able to jest
openly about Mr. W.
The spectacles which Molly found are my mother's, the scissors my
father's. We are very glad to hear such a good account of your patients,
little and great. My dear itty Dordy's remembrance of me is very
pleasing to me,--foolishly pleasing, because I know it will be over so
soon. My attachment to him will be more durable. I shall think with
tenderness and delight on his beautiful and smiling countenance and
interesting manner until a few years have turned him into an
ungovernable, ungracious fellow.
The books from Winton are all unpacked and put away; the binding has
compressed them most conveniently, and there is now very good room in
the bookcase for all that we wish to have there. I believe the servants
were very glad to see us Nanny was, I am sure. She confesses that it
was very dull, and yet she had her child with her till last Sunday. I
understand that there are some grapes left, but I believe not many; they
must be gathered as soon as possible, or this rain will entirely rot
them.
I am quite angry with myself for not writing closer; why is my alphabet
so much more sprawly than yours? Dame Tilbury's daughter has lain in.
Shall I give her any of your baby clothes? The laceman was here only a
few days ago. How unfortunate for both of us that he came so soon! Dame
Bushell washes for us only one week more, as Sukey has got a place. John
Steevens' wife undertakes our purification. She does not look as if
anything she touched would ever be clean, but who knows? We do not seem
likely to have any other maidservant at present, but Dame Staples will
supply the place of one. Mary has hired a young girl from Ashe who has
never been out to service to be her scrub, but James fears her not being
strong enough for the place.
