   Card. I am glad
Your Grace is growne so pleasant
   Kin. My Lord Chamberlaine,
Prethee come hither, what faire Ladie's that?
  Cham. An't please your Grace,
Sir Thomas Bullens Daughter, the Viscount Rochford,
One of her Highnesse women
   Kin. By Heauen she is a dainty one. Sweet heart,
I were vnmannerly to take you out,
And not to kisse you. A health Gentlemen,
Let it goe round
   Card. Sir Thomas Louell, is the Banket ready
I'th' Priuy Chamber?
  Lou. Yes, my Lord
   Card. Your Grace
I feare, with dancing is a little heated
   Kin. I feare too much
   Card. There's fresher ayre my Lord,
In the next Chamber
   Kin. Lead in your Ladies eu'ry one: Sweet Partner,
I must not yet forsake you: Let's be merry,
Good my Lord Cardinall: I haue halfe a dozen healths,
To drinke to these faire Ladies, and a measure
To lead 'em once againe, and then let's dreame
Who's best in fauour. Let the Musicke knock it.
Exeunt. with Trumpets.
Actus Secundus. Scena Prima.
Enter two Gentlemen at seuerall Doores.
  1. Whether away so fast?
  2. O, God saue ye:
Eu'n to the Hall, to heare what shall become
Of the great Duke of Buckingham
   1. Ile saue you
That labour Sir. All's now done but the Ceremony
Of bringing backe the Prisoner
   2. Were you there ?
  1. Yes indeed was I
   2. Pray speake what ha's happen'd
   1. You may guesse quickly what
   2. Is he found guilty?
  1. Yes truely is he,
And condemn'd vpon't
   2. I am sorry fort
   1. So are a number more
   2. But pray how past it?
  1. Ile tell you in a little. The great Duke
Came to the Bar; where, to his accusations
He pleaded still not guilty, and alleadged
Many sharpe reasons to defeat the Law.
The Kings Atturney on the contrary,
Vrg'd on the Examinations, proofes, confessions
Of diuers witnesses, which the Duke desir'd
To him brought viua voce to his face;
At which appear'd against him, his Surueyor
Sir Gilbert Pecke his Chancellour, and Iohn Car,
Confessor to him, with that Diuell Monke,
Hopkins, that made this mischiefe
   2. That was hee
That fed him with his Prophecies
   1. The same,
All these accus'd him strongly, which he faine
Would haue flung from him; but indeed he could not;
And so his Peeres vpon this euidence,
Haue found him guilty of high Treason. Much
He spoke, and learnedly for life: But all
Was either pittied in him, or forgotten
   2. After all this, how did he beare himselfe?
  1. When he was brought agen to th' Bar, to heare
His Knell rung out, his Iudgement, he was stir'd
With such an Agony, he sweat extreamly,
And somthing spoke in choller, ill, and hasty:
But he fell to himselfe againe, and sweetly,
In all the rest shew'd a most Noble patience
   2. I doe not thinke he feares death
   1. Sure he does not,
He neuer was so womanish, the cause
He may a little grieue at
