  Boy. Mine Hoast Pistoll, you must come to my Mayster,
and your Hostesse: He is very sicke, & would to bed.
Good Bardolfe, put thy face betweene his sheets, and do
the Office of a Warming-pan: Faith, he's very ill
   Bard. Away you Rogue
   Host. By my troth he'l yeeld the Crow a pudding one
of these dayes: the King has kild his heart. Good Husband
come home presently.
Exit
  Bar. Come, shall I make you two friends. Wee must
to France together: why the diuel should we keep kniues
to cut one anothers throats?
  Pist. Let floods ore-swell, and fiends for food howle
on
   Nym. You'l pay me the eight shillings I won of you
at Betting?
  Pist. Base is the Slaue that payes
   Nym. That now I wil haue: that's the humor of it
   Pist. As manhood shal compound: push home.
Draw
  Bard. By this sword, hee that makes the first thrust,
Ile kill him: By this sword, I wil
   Pi. Sword is an Oath, & Oaths must haue their course
  Bar. Coporall Nym, & thou wilt be friends be frends,
and thou wilt not, why then be enemies with me to: prethee
put vp
   Pist. A Noble shalt thou haue, and present pay, and
Liquor likewise will I giue to thee, and friendshippe
shall combyne, and brotherhood. Ile liue by Nymme, &
Nymme shall liue by me, is not this iust? For I shal Sutler
be vnto the Campe, and profits will accrue. Giue mee
thy hand
   Nym. I shall haue my Noble?
  Pist. In cash, most iustly payd
   Nym. Well, then that the humor of't.
Enter Hostesse.
  Host. As euer you come of women, come in quickly
to sir Iohn: A poore heart, hee is so shak'd of a burning
quotidian Tertian, that it is most lamentable to behold.
Sweet men, come to him
   Nym. The King hath run bad humors on the Knight,
that's the euen of it
   Pist. Nym, thou hast spoke the right, his heart is fracted
and corroborate
   Nym. The King is a good King, but it must bee as it
may: he passes some humors, and carreeres
   Pist. Let vs condole the Knight, for (Lambekins) we
will liue.
Enter Exeter, Bedford, & Westmerland.
  Bed. Fore God his Grace is bold to trust these traitors
  Exe. They shall be apprehended by and by
   West. How smooth and euen they do bear themselues,
As if allegeance in their bosomes sate
Crowned with faith, and constant loyalty
   Bed. The King hath note of all that they intend,
By interception, which they dreame not of
   Exe. Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow,
Whom he hath dull'd and cloy'd with gracious fauours;
That he should for a forraigne purse, so sell
His Soueraignes life to death and treachery.
Sound Trumpets.
Enter the King, Scroope, Cambridge, and Gray.
  King. Now sits the winde faire, and we will aboord.
My Lord of Cambridge, and my kinde Lord of Masham,
And you my gentle Knight, giue me your thoughts:
Thinke you not that the powres we beare with vs
Will cut their passage through the force of France?
Doing the execution, and the acte,
For which we haue in head assembled them
