[Exit.]
QUEEN.
Why, now is Henry king, and Margaret queen;
And Humphrey Duke of Gloster scarce himself,
That bears so shrewd a maim; two pulls at once--
His lady banish'd, and a limb lopp'd off.
This staff of honour raught, there let it stand
Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
SUFFOLK.
Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays;
Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
YORK.
Lords, let him go.--Please it your majesty,
This is the day appointed for the combat;
And ready are the appellant and defendant,
The armourer and his man, to enter the lists,
So please your highness to behold the fight.
QUEEN.
Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore
Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
KING.
O' God's name, see the lists and all things fit.
Here let them end it; and God defend the right!
YORK.
I never saw a fellow worse bested,
Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
The servant of his armourer, my lords.
[Enter at one door, HORNER the Armourer, and his
Neighbours, drinking to him so much that he is
drunk; and he enters with a drum before him and
his staff with a sand-bag fastened to it; and at the
other door PETER, his man, with a drum and sandbag,
and Prentices drinking to him.]
1 NEIGHBOUR.
Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
sack; and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
2 NEIGHBOUR.
And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
3 NEIGHBOUR.
And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbour;
drink, and fear not your man.
HORNER.
Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and a
fig for Peter!
1 PRENTICE.
Here, Peter, I drink to thee; and be not afraid.
2 PRENTICE.
Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master: fight
for credit of the prentices.
PETER.
I thank you all; drink, and pray for me, I pray you, for I
think I have taken my last draught in this world.--Here, Robin,
an if I die, I give thee my apron;--and, Will, thou shalt have my
hammer;--and here, Tom, take all the money that I have.--O Lord
bless me! I pray God! for I am never able to deal with my master,
he hath learnt so much fence already.
SALISBURY.
Come, leave your drinking and fall to blows.--
Sirrah, what's thy name?
PETER.
Peter, forsooth.
SALISBURY.
Peter? what more?
PETER.
Thump.
SALISBURY.
Thump! then see thou thump thy master well.
HORNER.
Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's instigation,
to prove him a knave and myself an honest man; and touching the
Duke of York, I will take my death, I never meant him any ill,
nor the
king, nor the queen;--and therefore, Peter, have at thee with a
downright
blow!
YORK.
Dispatch; this knave's tongue begins to double.--
Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
[Alarum. They fight, and Peter strikes him down.]
