SOMERSET.
I humbly thank your royal Majesty.
HORNER.
And I accept the combat willingly.
PETER.
Alas, my lord, I cannot fight; for God's sake, pity my case.
The spite of man prevaileth against me. O Lord, have mercy
upon me! I shall never be able to fight a blow! O Lord, my heart!
GLOSTER.
Sirrah, or you must fight or else be hang'd.
KING.
Away with them to prison; and the day of combat shall
be the last of the next month.--Come, Somerset, we'll see thee
sent away.
[Flourish. Exeunt.]
SCENE IV. Gloster's Garden
[Enter MARGERY JOURDAIN, HUME, SOUTHWELL, and BOLINGBROKE.]
HUME.
Come, my masters; the duchess, I tell you, expects
performance of your promises.
BOLINGBROKE.
Master Hume, we are therefore provided;
will her ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms?
HUME.
Ay, what else? fear you not her courage.
BOLINGBROKE.
I have heard her reported to be a woman of an invincible spirit:
but it shall be convenient, Master Hume, that you be by her
aloft while we be busy below; and so, I pray you go, in God's
name, and leave us.--[Exit Hume.]  Mother Jourdain, be you
prostrate and grovel on the earth.--John Southwell, read you; and
let us to our work.
[Enter DUCHESS aloft, HUME following.]
DUCHESS.
Well said, my masters; and welcome all. To this gear
the sooner the better.
BOLINGBROKE.
Patience, good lady, wizards know their times:
Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night,
The time of night when Troy was set on fire,
The time when screech-owls cry and ban-dogs howl
And spirits walk and ghosts break up their graves,
That time best fits the work we have in hand.
Madam, sit you and fear not; whom we raise,
We will make fast within a hallow'd verge.
[Here they do the ceremonies belonging, and make the circle;
Bolingbroke or Southwell reads, Conjuro te, etc.
It thunders and lightens terribly; then the Spirit riseth.]
SPIRIT.
Adsum.
M. JOURDAIN.
Asmath,
By the eternal God, whose name and power
Thou tremblest at, answer that I shall ask;
For till thou speak thou shalt not pass from hence.
SPIRIT.
Ask what thou wilt. That I had said and done!
BOLINGBROKE.
[Reads] 'First of the king: what shall
of him become?'
SPIRIT.
The duke yet lives that Henry shall depose,
But him outlive and die a violent death.
[As the Spirit speaks, Southwell writes the answer.]
BOLINGBROKE.
'What fates await the Duke of Suffolk?'
SPIRIT.
By water shall he die and take his end.
BOLINGBROKE.
[Reads]  'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
SPIRIT.
Let him shun castles;
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
Than where castles mounted stand.
Have done, for more I hardly can endure.
BOLINGBROKE.
Descend to darkness and the burning lake!
False fiend, avoid!
[Thunder and lightning. Exit Spirit.]
[Enter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
with their Guard and break in YORK.]
Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash.--
Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch.
What, madam, are you there? the king and commonweal
Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains;
My lord protector will, I doubt it not,
See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
