PERICLES.
An armour, friends! I pray you, let me see it.
Thanks, fortune, yet, that, after all my crosses,
Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself,
And though it was mine own, part of my heritage,
Which my dead father did bequeath to me,
With this strict charge, even as he left his life.
'Keep it, my Pericles; it hath been a shield
'Twixt me and death;' -- and pointed to this brace; --
For that it saved me, keep it; in like necessity --
The which the gods protect thee from! -- may defend thee.'
It kept where I kept, I so dearly loved it;
Till the rough seas, that spare not any man,
Took it in rage, though calm'd have given't again:
I thank thee for 't: my shipwreck now's no ill,
Since I have here my father's gift in's will.
FIRST FISHERMAN.
What mean you' sir?
PERICLES.
To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth,
For it was sometime target to a king;
I know it by this mark. He loved me dearly,
And for his sake I wish the having of it;
And that you'ld guide me to your sovereign court,
Where with it I may appear a gentleman;
And if that ever my fortune's better,
I'll pay your bounties; till then rest your debtor.
FIRST FISHERMAN.
Why, wilt thou tourney for the lady?
PERICLES.
I'll show the virtue I have borne in arms.
FIRST FISHERMAN.
Why, do'e take it, and the gods give thee good on 't!
SECOND FISHERMAN.
Ay, but hark you, my friend; 'twas we that made up this garment
through the rough seams of the waters: there are certain
condolements, certain vails.  I hope, sir, if you thrive, you'll
remember from whence you had it.
PERICLES.
Believe't I will.
By your furtherance I am clothed in steel;
And, spite of all the rapture of the sea,
This jewel holds his building on my arm:
Unto thy value I will mount myself
Upon a courser, whose delightful steps
Shall make the gazer joy to see him tread.
Only, my friend, I yet am unprovided
Of a pair of bases.
SECOND FISHERMAN.
We'll sure provide: thou shalt have my best gown to make thee a
pair; and I'll bring thee to the court myself.
PERICLES.
Then honour be but a goal to my will,
This day I'll rise, or else add ill to ill.
[Exeunt.]
SCENE II. The same. A public way, or platform leading to the
lists.  A pavilion by the side of it for the reception of the
King, Princess, Lords, etc.
[Enter Simonides, Lords and Attendants.]
SIMONIDES.
Are the knights ready to begin the triumph?
FIRST LORD.
They are, my liege;
And stay your coming to present themselves.
SIMONIDES.
Return them, we are ready; and our daughter,
In honour of whose birth these triumphs are,
Sits here, like beauty's child, whom nature gat
For men to see, and seeing wonder at.
[Exit a Lord.]
THALIARD.
It pleaseth you1 my royal father, to express
My commendations great, whose merit's less.
