   1. Come, come, we feare the worst: all will be well
   3. When Clouds are seen, wisemen put on their clokes;
When great leaues fall, then Winter is at hand;
When the Sun sets, who doth not looke for night?
Vntimely stormes, makes men expect a Dearth:
All may be well; but if God sort it so,
'Tis more then we deserue, or I expect
   2. Truly, the hearts of men are full of feare:
You cannot reason (almost) with a man,
That lookes not heauily, and full of dread
   3. Before the dayes of Change, still is it so,
By a diuine instinct, mens mindes mistrust
Pursuing danger: as by proofe we see
The Water swell before a boyst'rous storme:
But leaue it all to God. Whither away?
  2 Marry we were sent for to the Iustices
   3 And so was I: Ile beare you company.
Exeunt.
Scena Quarta.
Enter Arch-bishop, yong Yorke, the Queene, and the Dutchesse.
  Arch. Last night I heard they lay at Stony Stratford,
And at Northampton they do rest to night:
To morrow, or next day, they will be heere
   Dut. I long with all my heart to see the Prince:
I hope he is much growne since last I saw him
   Qu. But I heare no, they say my sonne of Yorke
Ha's almost ouertane him in his growth
   Yorke. I Mother, but I would not haue it so
   Dut. Why my good Cosin, it is good to grow
   Yor. Grandam, one night as we did sit at Supper,
My Vnkle Riuers talk'd how I did grow
More then my Brother. I, quoth my Vnkle Glouster,
Small Herbes haue grace, great Weeds do grow apace.
And since, me thinkes I would not grow so fast,
Because sweet Flowres are slow, and Weeds make hast
   Dut. Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
In him that did obiect the same to thee.
He was the wretched'st thing when he was yong,
So long a growing, and so leysurely,
That if his rule were true, he should be gracious
   Yor. And so no doubt he is, my gracious Madam
   Dut. I hope he is, but yet let Mothers doubt
   Yor. Now by my troth, if I had beene remembred,
I could haue giuen my Vnkles Grace, a flout,
To touch his growth, neerer then he toucht mine
   Dut. How my yong Yorke,
I prythee let me heare it
   Yor. Marry (they say) my Vnkle grew so fast,
That he could gnaw a crust at two houres old,
'Twas full two yeares ere I could get a tooth.
Grandam, this would haue beene a byting Iest
   Dut. I prythee pretty Yorke, who told thee this?
  Yor. Grandam, his Nursse
   Dut. His Nurse? why she was dead, ere y wast borne
   Yor. If 'twere not she, I cannot tell who told me
   Qu. A parlous Boy: go too, you are too shrew'd
   Dut. Good Madam, be not angry with the Childe
   Qu. Pitchers haue eares.
Enter a Messenger.
