(C) This ancient Exchange "where merchants most do congregate," is
situated on the Rialto Island, its name being derived from "_riva alta,"
"high shore_." It is a square in the immediate vicinity of the Rialto
Bridge, and contains the Church of San Jacopo, the first sacred edifice
built in Venice. The original church was erected in the year 421, and
the present building in 1194, and was restored in 1531. This island,
being the largest and most elevated, became the first inhabited, and is,
therefore, the most ancient part of Venice. The Exchange was held under
the arcades, facing the church, and was daily crowded with those
connected with trade and commerce. It is now occupied as a vegetable
market.
(D) Vecellio informs us that the Jews of Venice differed in nothing, as
far as regarded dress, from Venetians of the same occupation, with the
exception of a yellow, or orange tawney coloured bonnet, which they were
compelled to wear by order of government.
The women were distinguished from the Christian ladies by Wearing yellow
veils.
Shakespeare is supposed to have taken the name of his Jew from an old
pamphlet, entitled "Caleb Shillocke, his prophesie; or the Jewes
Prediction."
(E)
    "He lends out money gratis, and brings down
     The rate of usance here with us in Venice."
About the time that Shakespeare lived, Venice had commercial dealings
with all the civilized nations of the world; and Cyprus, Candia, and the
Morea were subject to her government. Merchants from all countries
congregated in Venice, and received every possible encouragement from
the authorities.
The Jews, under the sanction of government, were the money lenders, and
were, consequently, much disliked, as well as feared, by their
mercantile creditors. They indulged in usury to an enormous extent, and
were immensely rich.
ACT II.
SCENE I.--VENICE.(A) EXTERIOR OF SHYLOCK'S HOUSE.
_Enter_ LAUNCELOT GOBBO.
_Lau_. Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew, my
master: The fiend is at mine elbow, and tempts me; saying to
me,--_Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good Launcelot, or good Gobbo, or good
Launcelot Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away_:--My
conscience says,--No: take heed, honest Launcelot; take heed, honest
Gobbo:_ or (as aforesaid) _honest Launcelot Gobbo; do not run: scorn
running with thy heels_. Well the most courageous fiend bids me pack.
_Via_! says the fiend; _Away_! says the fiend, _for the heavens_;[44]
_rouse up a brave mind_, says the fiend, _and run_. Well, my conscience,
hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely to me, _my honest
friend, Launcelot, being an honest man's son_, or rather an honest
woman's son;--for, indeed, my father did something smack, something grow
to, he had a kind of taste;--well, my conscience says, _Launcelot, budge
not; budge_, says the fiend; _budge not_, says my conscience.
Conscience, say I, you counsel well; fiend, say I, you counsel well; to
be ruled by my conscience I should stay with the Jew, my master, who
(Heaven bless the mark!) is a kind of devil; and to run away from the
Jew I should be ruled by the fiend, who, saving your reverence, is the
devil himself. Certainly, the Jew is the very devil incarnation; and in
my conscience, my conscience is a kind of hard conscience, to offer to
counsel me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more friendly
counsel: I will run, fiend; my heels are at your commandment, I will
run.
