    SEB.                   O, but one word.  [_They talk apart._
    _Re-enter_ ARIEL, _invisible_.
    ARI. My master through his art foresees the danger
    That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth--
    For else his project dies--to keep them living.
                                           [_Sings in_ GONZALO's _ear_.
    While you here do snoring lie,
    Open-eyed conspiracy
        His time doth take.
    If of life you keep a care,
    Shake off slumber, and beware:
        Awake, awake!
ANT. Then let us both be sudden.
    GON.                   Now, good angels
    Preserve the king! [_They wake._
    ALON. Why, how now? ho, awake! Why are you drawn?
    Wherefore this ghastly looking?
    GON.                   What's the matter?
    SEB. Whiles we stood here securing your repose,
    Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing
    Like bulls, or rather lions: did't not wake you?
    It struck mine ear most terribly.
    ALON.                  I heard nothing.
    ANT. O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear,
    To make an earthquake! sure, it was the roar
    Of a whole herd of lions.
    ALON.                  Heard you this, Gonzalo?
    GON. Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming,
    And that a strange one too, which did awake me:
    I shaked you, sir, and cried: as mine eyes open'd,
    I saw their weapons drawn: there was a noise,
    That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
    Or that we quit this place: let's draw our weapons.
    ALON. Lead off this ground; and let's make further search
    For my poor son.
    GON.                   Heavens keep him from these beasts!
    For he is, sure, i' the island.
    ALON.                  Lead away.
    ARI. Prospero my lord shall know what I have done:
    So, king, go safely on to seek thy son. [_Exeunt._
[Illustration: STEPHANO: '_Come, swear to that: kiss the book_' (page
72).]
SCENE II
_Another part of the island._
_Enter_ CALIBAN _with a burden of wood. A noise of thunder heard_.
    CAL. All the infections that the sun sucks up
    From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall, and make him
    By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me,
    And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,
    Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' the mire,
    Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
    Out of my way, unless he bid 'em; but
    For every trifle are they set upon me;
    Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me
    And after bite me; then like hedgehogs, which
    Lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount
    Their pricks at my footfall; sometime am I
    All wound with adders, who with cloven tongues
    Do hiss me into madness.
_Enter_ TRINCULO.
                                    Lo, now, lo!
    Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
    For bringing wood in slowly. I'll fall flat;
    Perchance he will not mind me.
TRIN. Here's neither bush nor shrub, to bear off any weather at all,
and another storm brewing; I hear it sing i' the wind; yond same black
cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul bombard that would shed his
liquor. If it should thunder as it did before, I know not where to
hide my head: yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls. What
have we here? a man or a fish? dead or alive? A fish: he smells like a
fish; a very ancient and fish-like smell; a kind of, not of the newest,
poor-John. A strange fish! Were I in England now, as once I was, and
had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would give a
piece of silver: there would this monster make a man; any strange beast
there makes a man: when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame
beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian. Legged like a man!
and his fins like arms! Warm o' my trot! I do now let loose my opinion;
hold it no longer: this is no fish, but an islander, that hath lately
suffered by a thunderbolt. [_Thunder._] Alas, the storm is come again!
my best way is to creep under his gaberdine; there is no other shelter
hereabout: misery acquaints a man with strange bed-fellows. I will here
shroud till the dregs of the storm be past.
