   Tri. Stephano: if thou beest Stephano, touch me, and
speake to me: for I am Trinculo; be not afeard, thy
good friend Trinculo
   Ste. If thou bee'st Trinculo: come forth: I'le pull
thee by the lesser legges: if any be Trinculo's legges,
these are they: Thou art very Trinculo indeede: how
cam'st thou to be the siege of this Moone-calfe? Can
he vent Trinculo's?
  Tri. I tooke him to be kil'd with a thunder-strok; but
art thou not dround Stephano: I hope now thou art
not dround: Is the Storme ouer-blowne? I hid mee
vnder the dead Moone-Calfes Gaberdine, for feare of
the Storme: And art thou liuing Stephano? O Stephano,
two Neapolitanes scap'd?
  Ste. 'Prethee doe not turne me about, my stomacke
is not constant
   Cal. These be fine things, and if they be not sprights:
that's a braue God, and beares Celestiall liquor: I will
kneele to him
   Ste. How did'st thou scape?
How cam'st thou hither?
Sweare by this Bottle how thou cam'st hither: I escap'd
vpon a But of Sacke, which the Saylors heaued o'reboord,
by this Bottle which I made of the barke of
a Tree, with mine owne hands, since I was cast a'shore
   Cal. I'le sweare vpon that Bottle, to be thy true subiect,
for the liquor is not earthly
   St. Heere: sweare then how thou escap'dst
   Tri. Swom ashore (man) like a Ducke: I can swim
like a Ducke i'le be sworne
   Ste. Here, kisse the Booke.
Though thou canst swim like a Ducke, thou art made
like a Goose
   Tri. O Stephano, ha'st any more of this?
  Ste. The whole But (man) my Cellar is in a rocke
by th' sea-side, where my Wine is hid:
How now Moone-Calfe, how do's thine Ague?
  Cal. Ha'st thou not dropt from heauen?
  Ste. Out o'th Moone I doe assure thee. I was the
Man ith' Moone, when time was
   Cal. I haue seene thee in her: and I doe adore thee:
My Mistris shew'd me thee, and thy Dog, and thy Bush
   Ste. Come, sweare to that: kisse the Booke: I will
furnish it anon with new Contents: Sweare
   Tri. By this good light, this is a very shallow Monster:
I afeard of him? a very weake Monster:
The Man ith' Moone?
A most poore creadulous Monster:
Well drawne Monster, in good sooth
   Cal. Ile shew thee euery fertill ynch o'th Island: and
I will kisse thy foote: I prethee be my god
   Tri. By this light, a most perfidious, and drunken
Monster, when's god's a sleepe he'll rob his Bottle
   Cal. Ile kisse thy foot, Ile sweare my selfe thy Subiect
   Ste. Come on then: downe and sweare
   Tri. I shall laugh my selfe to death at this puppi-headed
Monster: a most scuruie Monster: I could finde in
my heart to beate him
   Ste. Come, kisse
   Tri. But that the poore Monster's in drinke:
An abhominable Monster
   Cal. I'le shew thee the best Springs: I'le plucke thee
Berries: I'le fish for thee; and get thee wood enough.
A plague vpon the Tyrant that I serue;
I'le beare him no more Stickes, but follow thee, thou
wondrous man
