_Enter_ STEPHANO, _singing: a bottle in his hand_.
    STEPH. I shall no more to sea, to sea,
             Here shall I die ashore--
    This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's
    funeral: well, here's my comfort. [_Drinks._
[_Sings._]
    The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I,
          The gunner and his mate
    Loved Mall, Meg and Marian and Margery,
        But none of us cared for Kate;
        For she had a tongue with a tang,
        Would cry to a sailor, Go hang!
    She loved not the savour of tar nor of pitch:
        Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!
This is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort. [_Drinks._
CAL. Do not torment me: Oh!
STEPH. What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you put tricks upon's
with savages and men of Ind, ha? I have not 'scaped drowning to be
afeard now of your four legs; for it hath been said, As proper a man
as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground; and it shall be
said so again while Stephano breathes at nostrils.
CAL. The spirit torments me: Oh!
STEPH. This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who hath got,
as I take it, an ague. Where the devil should he learn our language? I
will give him some relief, if it be but for that. If I can recover him
and keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he's a present for any
emperor that ever trod on neat's-leather.
CAL. Do not torment me, prithee; I'll bring my wood home faster.
STEPH. He's in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest. He shall
taste of my bottle: if he have never drunk wine afore, it will go near
to remove his fit. If I can recover him and keep him tame, I will not
take too much for him; he shall pay for him that hath him, and that
soundly.
CAL. Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon, I know it by thy
trembling: now Prosper works upon thee.
STEPH. Come on your ways; open your mouth; here is that which will give
language to you, cat: open your mouth; this will shake your shaking,
I can tell you, and that soundly: you cannot tell who's your friend:
open your chaps again.
TRIN. I should know that voice: it should be--but he is drowned; and
these are devils: O defend me!
STEPH. Four legs and two voices: a most delicate monster! His forward
voice now is to speak well of his friend; his backward voice is to
utter foul speeches and to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will
recover him, I will help his ague. Come. Amen! I will pour some in thy
other mouth.
TRIN. Stephano!
STEPH. Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy! This is a devil, and
no monster; I will leave him; I have no long spoon.
TRIN. Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me and speak to me; for I
am Trinculo--be not afeard--thy good friend Trinculo.
