    PROS.                  Abhorred slave,
    Which any print of goodness wilt not take,
    Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
    Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
    One thing or other: when thou didst not, savage,
    Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
    A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes
    With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
    Though thou didst learn, had that in't which good natures
    Could not abide to be with; therefore wast thou
    Deservedly confined into this rock,
    Who hadst deserved more than a prison.
    CAL.  You taught me language; and my profit on't
    Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
    For learning me your language!
    PROS.                  Hag-seed, hence!
    Fetch us in fuel; and be quick, thou'rt best,
    To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice?
    If thou neglect'st or dost unwillingly
    What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps,
    Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar
    That beasts shall tremble at thy din.
    CAL.                   No, pray thee.
    [_Aside._] I must obey: his art is of such power,
    It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
    And make a vassal of him.
    PROS.                  So, slave; hence! [_Exit_ CALIBAN.
_Re-enter_ ARIEL, _invisible, playing and singing_; FERDINAND
_following_.
    ARIEL'S _song_.
    Come unto these yellow sands,
        And then take hands:
    Courtsied when you have and kiss'd
        The wild waves whist,
    Foot it featly here and there;
    And, sweet sprites, the burthen bear.
                Hark, hark!
    BURTHEN [_dispersedly_]. Bow-wow.
    ARI. The watch-dogs bark:
    BURTHEN [_dispersedly_]. Bow-wow.
    ARI.  Hark, hark! I hear
    The strain of strutting chanticleer
    Cry, Cock-a-diddle-dow.
    FER. Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?
    It sounds no more: and, sure, it waits upon
    Some god o' the island. Sitting on a bank,
    Weeping again the king my father's wreck,
    This music crept by me upon the waters,
    Allaying both their fury and my passion
    With its sweet air: thence I have follow'd it,
    Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
    No, it begins again.
    ARIEL _sings_.
    Full fathom five thy father lies;
        Of his bones are coral made;
    Those are pearls that were his eyes:
        Nothing of him that doth fade
    But doth suffer a sea-change
    Into something rich and strange.
    Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:
    BURTHEN.               Ding-dong.
    ARI. Hark! now I hear them,--Ding-dong, bell.
    FER. The ditty does remember my drown'd father.
    This is no mortal business, nor no sound
    That the earth owes. I hear it now above me.
    PROS. The fringed curtains of thine eye advance
    And say what thou seest yond.
    MIR.                   What is't? a spirit?
    Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
    It carries a brave form. But 'tis a spirit.
    PROS. No, wench; it eats and sleeps and hath such senses
    As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
    Was in the wreck; and, but he's something stain'd
    With grief that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
    A goodly person: he hath lost his fellows
    And strays about to find 'em.
