ANTONY
Shakespeare's completed characterization of Antony is in _Antony and
Cleopatra_. In the later play Antony is delineated with his native
aptitudes for vice warmed into full development by the great Egyptian
sorceress. In _Julius Caesar_ Shakespeare emphasizes as one of Antony's
characteristic traits his unreserved adulation of Caesar, shown in
reckless purveying to his dangerous weakness,--the desire to be called a
king. Already Caesar had more than kingly power, and it was the obvious
part of a friend to warn him against this ambition. Here and there are
apt indications of his proneness to those vicious levities and debasing
luxuries which afterwards ripened into such a gigantic profligacy. He
has not yet attained to that rank and full-blown combination of cruelty,
perfidy, and voluptuousness, which the world associates with his name,
but he is plainly on the way to it. His profound and wily dissimulation,
while knitting up the hollow truce with the assassins on the very spot
where "great Caesar fell," is managed with admirable skill; his deep
spasms of grief being worked out in just the right way to quench their
suspicions, and make them run into the toils, when he calls on them to
render him their bloody hands. Nor have they any right to complain, for
he is but paying them in their own coin; and we think none the worse of
him that he fairly outdoes them at their own practice.
But Antony's worst parts as here delivered are his exultant treachery in
proposing to use his colleague Lepidus as at once the pack-horse and the
scape-goat of the Triumvirate, and his remorseless savagery in arranging
for the slaughter of all that was most illustrious in Rome, bartering
away his own uncle, to glut his revenge with the blood of Cicero; though
even here his revenge was less hideous than the cold-blooded policy of
young Octavius. Yet Antony has in the play, as he had in fact, some
right noble streaks in him; for his character was a very mixed one; and
there was to the last a fierce war of good and evil within him.
Especially he had an eye to see, a heart to feel, and a soul to honor
the superb structure of manhood which Rome possessed in Julius Caesar,
who stood to him, indeed, as a kind of superior nature, to raise him
above himself. He "fear'd Caesar, honour'd him, and lov'd him"; and with
the murdered Caesar for his theme, he was for once inspired and kindled
to a rapture of the truest, noblest, most overwhelming eloquence.
Noteworthy also is the grateful remembrance at last of his obligations
to Brutus for having saved him from the daggers of the conspirators.
THE PEOPLE
That many-headed, but withal big-souled creature, the multitude, is
charmingly characterized in _Julius Caesar_. The common people, it is
true, are rather easily swayed hither and thither by the contagion of
sympathy and of persuasive speech; yet their feelings are in the main
right, and even their judgment in the long run is better than that of
the pampered Roman aristocracy, inasmuch as it proceeds more from the
instincts of manhood. Shakespeare evidently loved to play with the
natural, unsophisticated, though somewhat childish heart of the people;
but his playing is always genial and human-hearted, with a certain
angelic humor in it that seldom fails to warm us towards the subject. On
the whole, he understood the people well, and they have well repaid him
in understanding him better than the critics have often done. The
cobbler's droll humor, at the opening of this play, followed as it is by
a strain of the loftiest poetry, is aptly noted by Campbell as showing
that the dramatist, "even in dealing with classical subjects, laughed at
the classic fear of putting the ludicrous and sublime into
juxtaposition."
