SICINIUS.
This, as you say, suggested
At some time when his soaring insolence
Shall touch the people,--which time shall not want,
If it be put upon't; and that's as easy
As to set dogs on sheep,--will be his fire
To kindle their dry stubble; and their blaze
Shall darken him for ever.
[Enter A MESSENGER.]
BRUTUS.
What's the matter?
MESSENGER.
You are sent for to the Capitol. 'Tis thought
That Marcius shall be consul:
I have seen the dumb men throng to see him, and
The blind to hear him speak: matrons flung gloves,
Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
Upon him as he pass'd; the nobles bended
As to Jove's statue; and the commons made
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts:
I never saw the like.
BRUTUS.
Let's to the Capitol;
And carry with us ears and eyes for the time,
But hearts for the event.
SICINIUS.
Have with you.
[Exeunt.]
SCENE II. Rome. The Capitol.
[Enter two OFFICERS, to lay cushions.]
FIRST OFFICER.
Come, come; they are almost here. How many stand for consulships?
SECOND OFFICER.
Three, they say; but 'tis thought of every one Coriolanus will
carry it.
FIRST OFFICER.
That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud and loves not the
common people.
SECOND OFFICER.
Faith, there have been many great men that have flattered the
people, who ne'er loved them; and there be many that they have
loved, they know not wherefore; so that, if they love they know
not why, they hate upon no better a ground: therefore, for
Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate him
manifests the true knowledge he has in their disposition; and,
out of his noble carelessness, lets them plainly see't.
FIRST OFFICER.
If he did not care whether he had their love or no, he waved
indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm; but he
seeks their hate with greater devotion than they can render it
him; and leaves nothing undone that may fully discover him their
opposite. Now to seem to affect the malice and displeasure of the
people is as bad as that which he dislikes,--to flatter them for
their love.
SECOND OFFICER.
He hath deserved worthily of his country: and his ascent is not
by such easy degrees as those who, having been supple and
courteous to the people, bonnetted, without any further deed to
have them at all, into their estimation and report: but he hath
so planted his honours in their eyes, and his actions in their
hearts, that for their tongues to be silent, and not confess
so much, were a kind of ingrateful injury; to report otherwise
were a malice that, giving itself the lie, would pluck reproof
and rebuke from every ear that heard it.
FIRST OFFICER.
No more of him; he is a worthy man.: make way, they are coming.
[A sennet. Enter, with Lictors before them, COMINIUS the Consul,
MENENIUS, CORIOLANUS, Senators, SICINIUS and BRUTUS. The Senators
take their places; the Tribunes take theirs also by themselves.]
