NYM.
I cannot tell.  Things must be as they may. Men may sleep, and
they may have their throats about them at that time; and some say
knives have edges. It must be as it may.  Though patience be a
tired mare, yet she will plod. There must be conclusions. Well, I
cannot tell.
[Enter Pistol and Hostess.]
BARDOLPH.
Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife. Good Corporal, be
patient here.  How now, mine host Pistol!
PISTOL.
Base tike, call'st thou me host?
Now, by this hand, I swear I scorn the term;
Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
HOSTESS.
No, by my troth, not long; for we cannot lodge and board a
dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live honestly by the prick of
their needles, but it will be thought we keep a bawdy house
straight. [Nym and Pistol draw.] O well a day, Lady, if he be not
drawn now!  We shall see wilful adultery and murder committed.
BARDOLPH.
Good Lieutenant! good corporal! offer nothing here.
NYM.
Pish!
PISTOL.
Pish for thee, Iceland dog! thou prick-ear'd cur of Iceland!
HOSTESS.
Good Corporal Nym, show thy valour, and put up your sword.
NYM.
Will you shog off? I would have you solus.
PISTOL.
"Solus," egregious dog! O viper vile!
The "solus" in thy most mervailous face;
The "solus" in thy teeth, and in thy throat,
And in thy hateful lungs, yea, in thy maw, perdy,
And, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!
I do retort the "solus" in thy bowels;
For I can take, and Pistol's cock is up,
And flashing fire will follow.
NYM.
I am not Barbason; you cannot conjure me. I have an humour to
knock you indifferently well. If you grow foul with me, Pistol, I
will scour you with my rapier, as I may, in fair terms.  If you
would walk off, I would prick your guts a little, in good terms,
as I may; and that's the humour of it.
PISTOL.
O braggart vile and damned furious wight!
The grave doth gape, and doting death is near,
Therefore exhale.
BARDOLPH.
Hear me, hear me what I say.  He that strikes the first
stroke I'll run him up to the hilts, as I am a soldier.
[Draws.]
PISTOL.
An oath of mickle might; and fury shall abate.
Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give.
Thy spirits are most tall.
NYM.
I will cut thy throat, one time or other, in fair terms:
that is the humour of it.
PISTOL.
"Couple a gorge!"
That is the word. I thee defy again.
O hound of Crete, think'st thou my spouse to get?
No! to the spital go,
And from the powdering tub of infamy
Fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid's kind,
Doll Tearsheet she by name, and her espouse.
I have, and I will hold, the quondam Quickly
For the only she; and--pauca, there's enough.
Go to.
[Enter the Boy.]
BOY.
Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master, and you,
hostess.  He is very sick, and would to bed. Good Bardolph, put
thy face between his sheets, and do the office of a warming-pan.
Faith, he's very ill.
