CLOWN.
Now, now; I have not winked since I saw these sights: the men
are not yet cold under water, nor the bear half dined on the
gentleman; he's at it now.
SHEPHERD.
Would I had been by to have helped the old man!
CLOWN.
I would you had been by the ship-side, to have helped her:
there your charity would have lacked footing.
SHEPHERD.
[Aside.] Heavy matters, heavy matters! But look thee here, boy.
Now bless thyself: thou mettest with things dying, I with things
new-born. Here's a sight for thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for
a squire's child! look thee here; take up, take up, boy; open't.
So, let's see:--it was told me I should be rich by the fairies:
this is some changeling:--open't. What's within, boy?
CLOWN.
You're a made old man; if the sins of your youth are forgiven
you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
SHEPHERD.
This is fairy-gold, boy, and 'twill prove so: up with it, keep
it close: home, home, the next way! We are lucky, boy: and to be
so still requires nothing but secrecy--Let my sheep go:--come,
good boy, the next way home.
CLOWN.
Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see if the bear
be gone from the gentleman, and how much he hath eaten: they
are never curst but when they are hungry: if there be any of him
left, I'll bury it.
SHEPHERD.
That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that which is left
of him what he is, fetch me to the sight of him.
CLOWN.
Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i' the ground.
SHEPHERD.
'Tis a lucky day, boy; and we'll do good deeds on't.
[Exeunt.]
ACT IV.
SCENE I.
[Enter Time, as Chorus.]
TIME.
I,--that please some, try all; both joy and terror
Of good and bad; that make and unfold error,--
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
To me or my swift passage, that I slide
O'er sixteen years, and leave the growth untried
Of that wide gap, since it is in my power
To o'erthrow law, and in one self-born hour
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
Or what is now received: I witness to
The times that brought them in; so shall I do
To the freshest things now reigning, and make stale
The glistering of this present, as my tale
Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,
I turn my glass, and give my scene such growing
As you had slept between. Leontes leaving
The effects of his fond jealousies, so grieving
That he shuts up himself; imagine me,
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
In fair Bohemia; and remember well,
I mention'd a son o' the king's, which Florizel
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
Equal with wondering: what of her ensues,
I list not prophesy; but let Time's news
Be known when 'tis brought forth:--a shepherd's daughter,
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
Is the argument of Time. Of this allow,
If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
He wishes earnestly you never may.
