   Tim. You Gods reward them:
Prythee man looke cheerely. These old Fellowes
Haue their ingratitude in them Hereditary:
Their blood is cak'd, 'tis cold, it sildome flowes,
'Tis lacke of kindely warmth, they are not kinde;
And Nature, as it growes againe toward earth,
Is fashion'd for the iourney, dull and heauy.
Go to Ventiddius (prythee be not sad,
Thou art true, and honest; Ingeniously I speake,
No blame belongs to thee:) Ventiddius lately
Buried his Father, by whose death hee's stepp'd
Into a great estate: When he was poore,
Imprison'd, and in scarsitie of Friends,
I cleer'd him with fiue Talents: Greet him from me,
Bid him suppose, some good necessity
Touches his Friend, which craues to be remembred
With those fiue Talents; that had, giue't these Fellowes
To whom 'tis instant due. Neu'r speake, or thinke,
That Timons fortunes 'mong his Friends can sinke
   Stew. I would I could not thinke it:
That thought is Bounties Foe;
Being free it selfe, it thinkes all others so.
Exeunt.
Flaminius waiting to speake with a Lord from his Master, enters a
seruant
to him.
  Ser. I haue told my Lord of you, he is comming down
to you
   Flam. I thanke you Sir.
Enter Lucullus.
  Ser. Heere's my Lord
   Luc. One of Lord Timons men? A Guift I warrant.
Why this hits right: I dreampt of a Siluer Bason & Ewre
to night. Flaminius, honest Flaminius, you are verie respectiuely
welcome sir. Fill me some Wine. And how
does that Honourable, Compleate, Free-hearted Gentleman
of Athens, thy very bountifull good Lord and Mayster?
  Flam. His health is well sir
   Luc. I am right glad that his health is well sir: and
what hast thou there vnder thy Cloake, pretty Flaminius?
  Flam. Faith, nothing but an empty box Sir, which in
my Lords behalfe, I come to intreat your Honor to supply:
who hauing great and instant occasion to vse fiftie
Talents, hath sent to your Lordship to furnish him: nothing
doubting your present assistance therein
   Luc. La, la, la, la: Nothing doubting sayes hee? Alas
good Lord, a Noble Gentleman 'tis, if he would not keep
so good a house. Many a time and often I ha din'd with
him, and told him on't, and come againe to supper to him
of purpose, to haue him spend lesse, and yet he wold embrace
no counsell, take no warning by my comming, euery
man has his fault, and honesty is his. I ha told him on't,
but I could nere get him from't.
Enter Seruant with Wine.
  Ser. Please your Lordship, heere is the Wine
   Luc. Flaminius, I haue noted thee alwayes wise.
Heere's to thee
   Flam. Your Lordship speakes your pleasure
   Luc. I haue obserued thee alwayes for a towardlie
prompt spirit, giue thee thy due, and one that knowes
what belongs to reason; and canst vse the time wel, if the
time vse thee well. Good parts in thee; get you gone sirrah.
Draw neerer honest Flaminius. Thy Lords a bountifull
Gentleman, but thou art wise, and thou know'st
well enough (although thou com'st to me) that this is no
time to lend money, especially vpon bare friendshippe
without securitie. Here's three Solidares for thee, good
Boy winke at me, and say thou saw'st mee not. Fare thee
well
