_Pro._ Ay, ay; and she hath offer'd to the doom--
Which, unreversed, stands in effectual force--
A sea of melting pearl, which some call tears:
Those at her father's churlish feet she tender'd;                  225
With them, upon her knees, her humble self;
Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them
As if but now they waxed pale for woe:
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up,
Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears,                 230
Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire;
But Valentine, if he be ta'en, must die.
Besides, her intercession chafed him so,
When she for thy repeal was suppliant,
That to close prison he commanded her,                             235
With many bitter threats of biding there.
_Val._ No more; unless the next word that thou speak'st
Have some malignant power upon my life:
If so, I pray thee, breathe it in mine ear,
As ending anthem of my endless dolour.                             240
_Pro._ Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
And study help for that which thou lament'st.
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
Here if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love;
Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.                        245
Hope is a lover's staff; walk hence with that,
And manage it against despairing thoughts.
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence;
Which, being writ to me, shall be deliver'd
Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.                          250
The time now serves not to expostulate:
Come, I'll convey thee through the city-gate;
And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
Of all that may concern thy love-affairs.
As thou lovest Silvia, though not for thyself,                     255
Regard thy danger, and along with me!
_Val._ I pray thee, Launce, an if thou seest my boy,
Bid him make haste, and meet me at the North-gate.
_Pro._ Go, sirrah, find him out. Come, Valentine.
_Val._ O my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!                        260
    [_Exeunt Val. and Pro._
_Launce._ I am but a fool, look you; and yet I have the
wit to think my master is a kind of a knave: but that's all
one, if he be but one knave. He lives not now that knows
me to be in love; yet I am in love; but a team of horse
shall not pluck that from me; nor who 'tis I love; and yet         265
'tis a woman; but what woman, I will not tell myself; and
yet 'tis a milkmaid; yet 'tis not a maid, for she hath had
gossips; yet 'tis a maid, for she is her master's maid, and
serves for wages. She hath more qualities than a water-spaniel,--
which is much in a bare Christian.                                 270
  [_Pulling out a paper._]
Here is the cate-log of her condition. 'Imprimis:
She can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse can do no more:
nay, a horse cannot fetch, but only carry; therefore is she
better than a jade. 'Item: She can milk;' look you, a
sweet virtue in a maid with clean hands.                           275
