   2.Cit. Thinke you so? Which way do you iudge my
wit would flye
   3.Cit. Nay your wit will not so soone out as another
mans will, 'tis strongly wadg'd vp in a blocke-head: but
if it were at liberty, 'twould sure Southward
   2 Cit. Why that way?
  3 Cit. To loose it selfe in a Fogge, where being three
parts melted away with rotten Dewes, the fourth would
returne for Conscience sake, to helpe to get thee a Wife
   2 Cit. You are neuer without your trickes, you may,
you may
   3 Cit. Are you all resolu'd to giue your voyces? But
that's no matter, the greater part carries it, I say. If hee
would incline to the people, there was neuer a worthier
man.
Enter Coriolanus in a gowne of Humility, with Menenius.
Heere he comes, and in the Gowne of humility, marke
his behauiour: we are not to stay altogether, but to come
by him where he stands, by ones, by twoes, & by threes.
He's to make his requests by particulars, wherein euerie
one of vs ha's a single Honor, in giuing him our own voices
with our owne tongues, therefore follow me, and Ile
direct you how you shall go by him
   All. Content, content
   Men. Oh Sir, you are not right: haue you not knowne
The worthiest men haue done't?
  Corio. What must I say, I pray Sir?
Plague vpon't, I cannot bring
My tongue to such a pace. Looke Sir, my wounds,
I got them in my Countries Seruice, when
Some certaine of your Brethren roar'd, and ranne
From th' noise of our owne Drummes
   Menen. Oh me the Gods, you must not speak of that,
You must desire them to thinke vpon you
   Coriol. Thinke vpon me? Hang 'em,
I would they would forget me, like the Vertues
Which our Diuines lose by em
   Men. You'l marre all,
Ile leaue you: Pray you speake to em, I pray you
In wholsome manner.
Exit
Enter three of the Citizens.
  Corio. Bid them wash their Faces,
And keepe their teeth cleane: So, heere comes a brace,
You know the cause (Sir) of my standing heere
   3 Cit. We do Sir, tell vs what hath brought you too't
   Corio. Mine owne desert
   2 Cit. Your owne desert
   Corio. I, but mine owne desire
   3 Cit. How not your owne desire?
  Corio. No Sir, 'twas neuer my desire yet to trouble the
poore with begging
   3 Cit. You must thinke if we giue you any thing, we
hope to gaine by you
   Corio. Well then I pray, your price a'th' Consulship
   1 Cit. The price is, to aske it kindly
   Corio. Kindly sir, I pray let me ha't: I haue wounds to
shew you, which shall bee yours in priuate: your good
voice sir, what say you?
  2 Cit. You shall ha't worthy Sir
   Corio. A match Sir, there's in all two worthie voyces
begg'd: I haue your Almes, Adieu
   3 Cit. But this is something odde
