   Menen. Worthy man
   Senat. He cannot but with measure fit the Honors
which we deuise him
   Com. Our spoyles he kickt at,
And look'd vpon things precious, as they were
The common Muck of the World: he couets lesse
Then Miserie it selfe would giue, rewards his deeds
With doing them, and is content
To spend the time, to end it
   Menen. Hee's right Noble, let him be call'd for
   Senat. Call Coriolanus
   Off. He doth appeare.
Enter Coriolanus.
  Menen. The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleas'd to make
thee Consull
   Corio. I doe owe them still my Life, and Seruices
   Menen. It then remaines, that you doe speake to the
People
   Corio. I doe beseech you,
Let me o're-leape that custome: for I cannot
Put on the Gowne, stand naked, and entreat them
For my Wounds sake, to giue their sufferage:
Please you that I may passe this doing
   Scicin. Sir, the People must haue their Voyces,
Neyther will they bate one iot of Ceremonie
   Menen. Put them not too't:
Pray you goe fit you to the Custome,
And take to you, as your Predecessors haue,
Your Honor with your forme
   Corio. It is a part that I shall blush in acting,
And might well be taken from the People
   Brutus. Marke you that
   Corio. To brag vnto them, thus I did, and thus
Shew them th' vnaking Skarres, which I should hide,
As if I had receiu'd them for the hyre
Of their breath onely
   Menen. Doe not stand vpon't:
We recommend to you Tribunes of the People
Our purpose to them, and to our Noble Consull
Wish we all Ioy, and Honor
   Senat. To Coriolanus come all ioy and Honor.
Flourish Cornets. Then Exeunt. Manet Sicinius and Brutus.
  Bru. You see how he intends to vse the people
   Scicin. May they perceiue's intent: he wil require them
As if he did contemne what he requested,
Should be in them to giue
   Bru. Come, wee'l informe them
Of our proceedings heere on th' Market place,
I know they do attend vs.
Enter seuen or eight Citizens.
  1.Cit. Once if he do require our voyces, wee ought
not to deny him
   2.Cit. We may Sir if we will
   3.Cit. We haue power in our selues to do it, but it is
a power that we haue no power to do: For, if hee shew vs
his wounds, and tell vs his deeds, we are to put our tongues
into those wounds, and speake for them: So if he tel
vs his Noble deeds, we must also tell him our Noble acceptance
of them. Ingratitude is monstrous, and for the
multitude to be ingratefull, were to make a Monster of
the multitude; of the which, we being members, should
bring our selues to be monstrous members
   1.Cit. And to make vs no better thought of a little
helpe will serue: for once we stood vp about the Corne,
he himselfe stucke not to call vs the many-headed Multitude
   3.Cit. We haue beene call'd so of many, not that our
heads are some browne, some blacke, some Abram, some
bald; but that our wits are so diuersly Coulord; and truely
I thinke, if all our wittes were to issue out of one Scull,
they would flye East, West, North, South, and their consent
of one direct way, should be at once to all the points
a'th Compasse
