   Plant. This Oath I willingly take, and will performe
   Warw. Long liue King Henry: Plantagenet embrace
him
   Henry. And long liue thou, and these thy forward
Sonnes
   Plant. Now Yorke and Lancaster are reconcil'd
   Exet. Accurst be he that seekes to make them foes.
Senet. Here they come downe.
  Plant. Farewell my gracious Lord, Ile to my Castle
   Warw. And Ile keepe London with my Souldiers
   Norf. And I to Norfolke with my followers
   Mount. And I vnto the Sea, from whence I came
   Henry. And I with griefe and sorrow to the Court.
Enter the Queene.
  Exeter. Heere comes the Queene,
Whose Lookes bewray her anger:
Ile steale away
   Henry. Exeter so will I
   Queene. Nay, goe not from me, I will follow thee
   Henry. Be patient gentle Queene, and I will stay
   Queene. Who can be patient in such extreames?
Ah wretched man, would I had dy'de a Maid?
And neuer seene thee, neuer borne thee Sonne,
Seeing thou hast prou'd so vnnaturall a Father.
Hath he deseru'd to loose his Birth-right thus?
Hadst thou but lou'd him halfe so well as I,
Or felt that paine which I did for him once,
Or nourisht him, as I did with my blood;
Thou would'st haue left thy dearest heart-blood there,
Rather then haue made that sauage Duke thine Heire,
And dis-inherited thine onely Sonne
   Prince. Father, you cannot dis-inherite me:
If you be King, why should not I succeede?
  Henry. Pardon me Margaret, pardon me sweet Sonne,
The Earle of Warwick and the Duke enforc't me
   Quee. Enforc't thee? Art thou King, and wilt be forc't?
I shame to heare thee speake: ah timorous Wretch,
Thou hast vndone thy selfe, thy Sonne, and me,
And giu'n vnto the House of Yorke such head,
As thou shalt reigne but by their sufferance.
To entayle him and his Heires vnto the Crowne,
What is it, but to make thy Sepulcher,
And creepe into it farre before thy time?
Warwick is Chancelor, and the Lord of Callice,
Sterne Falconbridge commands the Narrow Seas,
The Duke is made Protector of the Realme,
And yet shalt thou be safe? Such safetie findes
The trembling Lambe, inuironned with Wolues.
Had I beene there, which am a silly Woman,
The Souldiers should haue toss'd me on their Pikes,
Before I would haue granted to that Act.
But thou preferr'st thy Life, before thine Honor.
And seeing thou do'st, I here diuorce my selfe,
Both from thy Table Henry, and thy Bed,
Vntill that Act of Parliament be repeal'd,
Whereby my Sonne is dis-inherited.
The Northerne Lords, that haue forsworne thy Colours,
Will follow mine, if once they see them spread:
And spread they shall be, to thy foule disgrace,
And vtter ruine of the House of Yorke.
Thus doe I leaue thee: Come Sonne, let's away,
Our Army is ready; come, wee'le after them
   Henry. Stay gentle Margaret, and heare me speake
   Queene. Thou hast spoke too much already: get thee
gone
   Henry. Gentle Sonne Edward, thou wilt stay me?
  Queene. I, to be murther'd by his Enemies
