   Rich. Yea, is it so:
I see the Lady hath a thing to graunt,
Before the King will graunt her humble suit
   Clarence. Hee knowes the Game, how true hee keepes
the winde?
  Rich. Silence
   King. Widow, we will consider of your suit,
And come some other time to know our minde
   Wid. Right gracious Lord, I cannot brooke delay:
May it please your Highnesse to resolue me now,
And what your pleasure is, shall satisfie me
   Rich. I Widow? then Ile warrant you all your Lands,
And if what pleases him, shall pleasure you:
Fight closer, or good faith you'le catch a Blow
   Clarence. I feare her not, vnlesse she chance to fall
   Rich. God forbid that, for hee'le take vantages
   King. How many Children hast thou, Widow? tell
me
   Clarence. I thinke he meanes to begge a Child of her
   Rich. Nay then whip me: hee'le rather giue her two
   Wid. Three, my most gracious Lord
   Rich. You shall haue foure, if you'le be rul'd by him
   King. 'Twere pittie they should lose their Fathers
Lands
   Wid. Be pittifull, dread Lord, and graunt it then
   King. Lords giue vs leaue, Ile trye this Widowes
wit
   Rich. I, good leaue haue you, for you will haue leaue,
Till Youth take leaue, and leaue you to the Crutch
   King. Now tell me, Madame, doe you loue your
Children?
  Wid. I, full as dearely as I loue my selfe
   King. And would you not doe much to doe them
good?
  Wid. To doe them good, I would sustayne some
harme
   King. Then get your Husbands Lands, to doe them
good
   Wid. Therefore I came vnto your Maiestie
   King. Ile tell you how these Lands are to be got
   Wid. So shall you bind me to your Highnesse seruice
   King. What seruice wilt thou doe me, if I giue them?
  Wid. What you command, that rests in me to doe
   King. But you will take exceptions to my Boone
   Wid. No, gracious Lord, except I cannot doe it
   King. I, but thou canst doe what I meane to aske
   Wid. Why then I will doe what your Grace commands
   Rich. Hee plyes her hard, and much Raine weares the
Marble
   Clar. As red as fire? nay then, her Wax must melt
   Wid. Why stoppes my Lord? shall I not heare my
Taske?
  King. An easie Taske, 'tis but to loue a King
   Wid. That's soone perform'd, because I am a Subiect
   King. Why then, thy Husbands Lands I freely giue
thee
   Wid. I take my leaue with many thousand thankes
   Rich. The Match is made, shee seales it with a Cursie
   King. But stay thee, 'tis the fruits of loue I meane
   Wid. The fruits of Loue, I meane, my louing Liege
   King. I, but I feare me in another sence.
What Loue, think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
  Wid. My loue till death, my humble thanks, my prayers,
That loue which Vertue begges, and Vertue graunts
   King. No, by my troth, I did not meane such loue
