   Knight. Since my young Ladies going into France
Sir, the Foole hath much pined away
   Lear. No more of that, I haue noted it well, goe you
and tell my Daughter, I would speake with her. Goe you
call hither my Foole; Oh you Sir, you, come you hither
Sir, who am I Sir?
Enter Steward.
  Ste. My Ladies Father
   Lear. My Ladies Father? my Lords knaue, you whorson
dog, you slaue, you curre
   Ste. I am none of these my Lord,
I beseech your pardon
   Lear. Do you bandy lookes with me, you Rascall?
  Ste. Ile not be strucken my Lord
   Kent. Nor tript neither, you base Foot-ball plaier
   Lear. I thanke thee fellow.
Thou seru'st me, and Ile loue thee
   Kent. Come sir, arise, away, Ile teach you differences:
away, away, if you will measure your lubbers length againe,
tarry, but away, goe too, haue you wisedome, so
   Lear. Now my friendly knaue I thanke thee, there's
earnest of thy seruice.
Enter Foole.
  Foole. Let me hire him too, here's my Coxcombe
   Lear. How now my pretty knaue, how dost thou?
  Foole. Sirrah, you were best take my Coxcombe
   Lear. Why my Boy?
  Foole. Why? for taking ones part that's out of fauour,
nay, & thou canst not smile as the wind sits, thou'lt catch
colde shortly, there take my Coxcombe; why this fellow
ha's banish'd two on's Daughters, and did the third a
blessing against his will, if thou follow him, thou must
needs weare my Coxcombe. How now Nunckle? would
I had two Coxcombes and two Daughters
   Lear. Why my Boy?
  Fool. If I gaue them all my liuing, I'ld keepe my Coxcombes
my selfe, there's mine, beg another of thy
Daughters
   Lear. Take heed Sirrah, the whip
   Foole. Truth's a dog must to kennell, hee must bee
whipt out, when the Lady Brach may stand by'th' fire
and stinke
   Lear. A pestilent gall to me
   Foole. Sirha, Ile teach thee a speech
   Lear. Do
   Foole. Marke it Nuncle;
Haue more then thou showest,
Speake lesse then thou knowest,
Lend lesse then thou owest,
Ride more then thou goest,
Learne more then thou trowest,
Set lesse then thou throwest;
Leaue thy drinke and thy whore,
And keepe in a dore,
And thou shalt haue more,
Then two tens to a score
   Kent. This is nothing Foole
   Foole. Then 'tis like the breath of an vnfeed Lawyer,
you gaue me nothing for't, can you make no vse of nothing
Nuncle?
  Lear. Why no Boy,
Nothing can be made out of nothing
   Foole. Prythee tell him, so much the rent of his land
comes to, he will not beleeue a Foole
   Lear. A bitter Foole
   Foole. Do'st thou know the difference my Boy, betweene
a bitter Foole, and a sweet one
   Lear. No Lad, teach me
   Foole. Nunckle, giue me an egge, and Ile giue thee
two Crownes
   Lear. What two Crownes shall they be?
  Foole. Why after I haue cut the egge i'th' middle and
eate vp the meate, the two Crownes of the egge: when
thou clouest thy Crownes i'th' middle, and gau'st away
both parts, thou boar'st thine Asse on thy backe o're the
durt, thou hadst little wit in thy bald crowne, when thou
gau'st thy golden one away; if I speake like my selfe in
this, let him be whipt that first findes it so.
Fooles had nere lesse grace in a yeere,
For wisemen are growne foppish,
And know not how their wits to weare,
Their manners are so apish
