    The History then states that "a fire broke out where the strength
    of the French was greater, and the French themselves were overcome
    with resisting, and in endeavouring to extinguish the fire, until
    at length by force of arms, darts, and flames, their strength was
    destroyed. Leaving the place therefore to our party, they fled and
    retreated beneath the walls for protection; most carefully
    blocking up the entrance with timber, stones, earth, and mud, lest
    our people should rush in upon them through the same passage."
    "On the following day a conference was held with the Lord de
    Gaucort, who acted as Captain, and with the more powerful leaders,
    whether it was the determination of the inhabitants to surrender
    the town without suffering further rigour of death or war. * * *
    On that night they entered into a treaty with the King, that if
    the French King, or the Dauphin, his first-born, being informed,
    should not raise the seige, and deliver them by force of arms
    within the first hour after morn on the Sunday following, they
    would surrender to him the town, and themselves, and their
    property."
    "And neither at the aforesaid hour on the following Sunday, nor
    within the time, the French King, the Dauphin, nor any one else,
    coming forward to raise the siege. * * * The aforesaid Lord de
    Gaucort came from the town into the king's presence, accompanied
    by those persons who before had sworn to keep the articles, and
    surrendering to him the keys of the Corporation, submitted
    themselves, together with the citizens, to his grace. * * * Then
    the banners of St. George and the King were fixed upon the gates
    of the town, and the King advanced his illustrious uncle, the Lord
    Thomas Beaufort, Earl of Dorset (afterwards Duke of Exeter) to be
    keeper and captain of the town, having delivered to him the keys."
    Thus, after a vigorous siege of about thirty-six days, one of the
    most important towns of Normandy fell into the hands of the
    invaders. The Chronicler in the text informs us, that the
    dysentery had carried off infinitely more of the English army than
    were slain in the siege; that about five thousand men were then so
    dreadfully debilitated by that disease, that they were unable to
    proceed, and were therefore sent to England; that three hundred
    men-at-arms and nine hundred archers were left to garrison
    Harfleur; that great numbers had cowardly deserted the King, and
    returned home by stealth; and that after all these deductions, not
    more than nine hundred lances and five thousand archers remained
    fit for service.
    Hume, in his History of England, relates that "King Henry landed
    near Harfleur, at the head of an army of 6,000 men-at-arms, and
    24,000 foot, mostly archers. He immediately began the siege of
    that place, which was valiantly defended by d'Estoueleville, and
    under him by de Guitri, de Gaucourt, and others of the French
    nobility; but as the garrison was weak, and the fortifications in
    bad repair, the governor was at last obliged to capitulate, and he
    promised to surrender the place if he received no succour before
    the 18th of September. The day came, and there was no appearance
    of a French army to relieve him. Henry, taking possession of the
    town, placed a garrison in it, and expelled all the French
    inhabitants, with an intention of peopling it anew with English.
    The fatigues of this siege, and the unusual heat of the season,
    had so wasted the English army, that Henry could enter on no
    farther enterprise, and was obliged to think of returning to
    England. He had dismissed his transports, which could not anchor
    in an open road upon the enemy's coasts, and he lay under a
    necessity of marching by land to Calais before he could reach a
    place of safety. A numerous French army of 14,000 men at-arms, and
    40,000 foot, was by this time assembled in Normandy, under the
    constable d'Albret, a force which, if prudently conducted, was
    sufficient either to trample down the English in the open field,
    or to harass and reduce to nothing their small army before they
    could finish so long and difficult a march. Henry, therefore,
    cautiously offered to sacrifice his conquest of Harfleur for a
    safe passage to Calais; but his proposal being rejected, he
    determined to make his way by valour and conduct through all the
    opposition of the enemy."]
