Pat: he comes like the Catastrophe of the old Comedie:
my Cue is villanous Melancholly, with a sighe like Tom
o' Bedlam. - O these Eclipses do portend these diuisions.
Fa, Sol, La, Me
   Edg. How now Brother Edmond, what serious contemplation
are you in?
  Bast. I am thinking Brother of a prediction I read this
other day, what should follow these Eclipses
   Edg. Do you busie your selfe with that?
  Bast. I promise you, the effects he writes of, succeede
vnhappily.
When saw you my Father last?
  Edg. The night gone by
   Bast. Spake you with him?
  Edg. I, two houres together
   Bast. Parted you in good termes? Found you no displeasure
in him, by word, nor countenance?
  Edg. None at all,
  Bast. Bethink your selfe wherein you may haue offended
him: and at my entreaty forbeare his presence, vntill
some little time hath qualified the heat of his displeasure,
which at this instant so rageth in him, that with the mischiefe
of your person, it would scarsely alay
   Edg. Some Villaine hath done me wrong
   Edm. That's my feare, I pray you haue a continent
forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower: and as
I say, retire with me to my lodging, from whence I will
fitly bring you to heare my Lord speake: pray ye goe,
there's my key: if you do stirre abroad, goe arm'd
   Edg. Arm'd, Brother?
  Edm. Brother, I aduise you to the best, I am no honest
man, if ther be any good meaning toward you: I haue told
you what I haue seene, and heard: But faintly. Nothing
like the image, and horror of it, pray you away
   Edg. Shall I heare from you anon?
Enter.
  Edm. I do serue you in this businesse:
A Credulous Father, and a Brother Noble,
Whose nature is so farre from doing harmes,
That he suspects none: on whose foolish honestie
My practises ride easie: I see the businesse.
Let me, if not by birth, haue lands by wit,
All with me's meete, that I can fashion fit.
Enter.
Scena Tertia.
Enter Gonerill, and Steward.
  Gon. Did my Father strike my Gentleman for chiding
of his Foole?
  Ste. I Madam
   Gon. By day and night, he wrongs me, euery howre
He flashes into one grosse crime, or other,
That sets vs all at ods: Ile not endure it;
His Knights grow riotous, and himselfe vpbraides vs
On euery trifle. When he returnes from hunting,
I will not speake with him, say I am sicke,
If you come slacke of former seruices,
You shall do well, the fault of it Ile answer
   Ste. He's comming Madam, I heare him
   Gon. Put on what weary negligence you please,
You and your Fellowes: I'de haue it come to question;
If he distaste it, let him to my Sister,
Whose mind and mine I know in that are one,
Remember what I haue said
   Ste. Well Madam
   Gon. And let his Knights haue colder lookes among
you: what growes of it no matter, aduise your fellowes
so, Ile write straight to my Sister to hold my course; prepare
for dinner.
