(D) _Cheerly to sea; the signs of war advance:_] "The king went from his
castle of Porchester in a small vessel to the sea, and embarking on
board his ship, called The Trinity, between the ports of Southampton and
Portsmouth, he immediately ordered that the sail should be set, to
signify his readiness to depart." "There were about fifteen hundred
vessels, including about a hundred which were left behind. After having
passed the Isle of Wight, swans were seen swimming in the midst of the
fleet, which, in the opinion of all, were said to be happy auspices of
the undertaking. On the next day, the king entered the mouth of the
Seine, and cast anchor before a place called Kidecaus, about three miles
from Harfleur, where he proposed landing." --_Nicolas's History of
Agincourt_.
The departure of Henry's army on this occasion, and the separation
between those who composed it and their relatives and friends, is thus
described by Drayton, who was born in 1563, and died in 1631:--
  There might a man have seen in every street,
    The father bidding farewell to his son;
  Small children kneeling at their father's feet:
    The wife with her dear husband ne'er had done:
  Brother, his brother, with adieu to greet:
    One friend to take leave of another, run;
  The maiden with her best belov'd to part,
  Gave him her hand who took away her heart.
  The nobler youth the common rank above,
    On their curveting coursers mounted fair:
  One wore his mistress' garter, one her glove;
    And he a lock of his dear lady's hair:
  And he her colours, whom he did most love;
    There was not one but did some favour wear:
  And each one took it, on his happy speed,
  To make it famous by some knightly deed.
(E) Enter the FRENCH KING, _the DAUPHIN, the_ DUKE OF BURGUNDY, _the
CONSTABLE, and others._] Charles VI., surnamed the Well Beloved, was
King of France during the most disastrous period of its history. He
ascended the throne in 1380, when only thirteen years of age. In 1385 he
married Isabella of Bavaria, who was equally remarkable for her beauty
and her depravity. The unfortunate king was subject to fits of insanity,
which lasted for several months at a time. On the 21st October, 1422,
seven years after the battle of Agincourt, Charles VI. ended his unhappy
life at the age of 55, having reigned 42 years. Lewis the Dauphin was
the eldest son of Charles VI. He was born 22nd January, 1396, and died
before his father, December 18th, 1415, in his twentieth year. History
says, "Shortly after the battle of Agincourt, either for melancholy that
he had for the loss, or by some sudden disease, Lewis, Dovphin of
Viennois, heir apparent to the French king, departed this life without
issue."
John, Duke of Burgundy, surnamed the Fearless, succeeded to the dukedom
in 1403. He caused the Duke of Orleans to be assassinated in the streets
of Paris, and was himself murdered August 28, 1419, on the bridge of
Montereau, at an interview with the Dauphin, afterwards Charles VII.
John was succeeded by his only son, who bore the title of Philip the
Good, Duke of Burgundy.
