MAYOR.
Nought rests for me in this tumultuous strife
But to make open proclamation:
Come, officer; as loud as e'er thou canst:
Cry.
OFFICER.
All manner of men assembled here in arms
this day against God's peace and the king's, we charge
and command you, in his highness' name, to repair to
your several dwelling-places; and not to wear, handle, or
use any sword, weapon, or dagger, henceforward, upon
pain of death.
GLOUCESTER.
Cardinal, I 'll be no breaker of the law;
But we shall meet, and break our minds at large.
WINCHESTER.
Gloucester, we will meet; to thy cost, be sure;
Thy heart-blood I will have for this day's work.
MAYOR.
I 'll call for clubs, if you will not away.
This Cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
GLOUCESTER.
Mayor, farewell:  thou dost but what thou mayst.
WINCHESTER.
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head;
For I intend to have it ere long.
[Exeunt, severally, Gloucester and Winchester with their
Serving-men.]
MAYOR.
See the coast clear'd, and then we will depart.
Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear!
I myself fight not once in forty year.
[Exeunt.]
SCENE IV. Orleans.
[Enter, on the walls, a Master Gunner and his Boy.]
MASTER GUNNER.
Sirrah, thou know'st how Orleans is besieged,
And how the English have the suburbs won.
BOY.
Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,
Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
MASTER GUNNER.
But now thou shalt not. Be thou ruled by me:
Chief master-gunner am I of this town;
Something I must do to procure me grace.
The prince's espials have informed me
How the English, in the suburbs close intrench'd,
Wont through a secret grate of iron bars
In yonder tower to overpeer the city,
And thence discover how with most advantage
They may vex us with shot or with assault.
To intercept this inconvenience,
A piece of ordnance 'gainst it I have placed;
And even these three days have I watch'd,
If I could see them.
Now do thou watch, for I can stay no longer.
If thou spy'st any, run and bring me word;
And thou shalt find me at the governor's.
[Exit.]
BOY.
Father, I warrant you; take you no care;
I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them.
[Exit.]
[Enter, on the turrets, the Lords Salisbury and Talbot,
Sir William Glansdale, Sir Thomas Gargrave, and others.]
SALISBURY.
Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd!
How wert thou handled being prisoner?
Or by what means got'st thou to be releas'd?
Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
TALBOT.
The Duke of Bedford had a prisoner
Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles;
For him was I exchanged and ransomed.
But with a baser man of arms by far
Once in contempt they would have barter'd me:
Which I disdaining scorn'd, and craved death
Rather than I would be so vile-esteem'd.
In fine, redeem'd I was as I desired.
But, O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart,
Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
If I now had him brought into my power.
