   Bast. I shall serue you Sir truely, how euer else
   Glo. For him I thanke your Grace
   Cor. You know not why we came to visit you?
  Reg. Thus out of season, thredding darke ey'd night,
Occasions Noble Gloster of some prize,
Wherein we must haue vse of your aduise.
Our Father he hath writ, so hath our Sister,
Of differences, which I best thought it fit
To answere from our home: the seuerall Messengers
From hence attend dispatch, our good old Friend,
Lay comforts to your bosome, and bestow
Your needfull counsaile to our businesses,
Which craues the instant vse
   Glo. I serue you Madam,
Your Graces are right welcome.
Exeunt. Flourish.
Scena Secunda.
Enter Kent, and Steward seuerally.
  Stew. Good dawning to thee Friend, art of this house?
  Kent. I
   Stew. Where may we set our horses?
  Kent. I'th' myre
   Stew. Prythee, if thou lou'st me, tell me
   Kent. I loue thee not
   Ste. Why then I care not for thee
   Kent. If I had thee in Lipsbury Pinfold, I would make
thee care for me
   Ste. Why do'st thou vse me thus? I know thee not
   Kent. Fellow I know thee
   Ste. What do'st thou know me for?
  Kent. A Knaue, a Rascall, an eater of broken meates, a
base, proud, shallow, beggerly, three-suited-hundred
pound, filthy woosted-stocking knaue, a Lilly-liuered,
action-taking, whoreson glasse-gazing super-seruiceable
finicall Rogue, one Trunke-inheriting slaue, one that
would'st be a Baud in way of good seruice, and art nothing
but the composition of a Knaue, Begger, Coward,
Pandar, and the Sonne and Heire of a Mungrill Bitch,
one whom I will beate into clamours whining, if thou
deny'st the least sillable of thy addition
   Stew. Why, what a monstrous Fellow art thou, thus
to raile on one, that is neither knowne of thee, nor
knowes thee?
  Kent. What a brazen-fac'd Varlet art thou, to deny
thou knowest me? Is it two dayes since I tript vp thy
heeles, and beate thee before the King? Draw you rogue,
for though it be night, yet the Moone shines, Ile make a
sop oth' Moonshine of you, you whoreson Cullyenly
Barber-monger, draw
   Stew. Away, I haue nothing to do with thee
   Kent. Draw you Rascall, you come with Letters against
the King, and take Vanitie the puppets part, against
the Royaltie of her Father: draw you Rogue, or
Ile so carbonado your shanks, draw you Rascall, come
your waies
   Ste. Helpe, ho, murther, helpe
   Kent. Strike you slaue: stand rogue, stand you neat
slaue, strike
   Stew. Helpe hoa, murther, murther.
Enter Bastard, Cornewall, Regan, Gloster, Seruants.
  Bast. How now, what's the matter? Part
   Kent. With you goodman Boy, if you please, come,
Ile flesh ye, come on yong Master
   Glo. Weapons? Armes? what's the matter here?
  Cor. Keepe peace vpon your liues, he dies that strikes
againe, what is the matter?
  Reg. The Messengers from our Sister, and the King?
  Cor. What is your difference, speake?
  Stew. I am scarce in breath my Lord
   Kent. No Maruell, you haue so bestir'd your valour,
you cowardly Rascall, nature disclaimes in thee: a Taylor
made thee
