If Consequence do but approue my dreame,
My Boate sailes freely, both with winde and Streame
   Cas. 'Fore heauen, they haue giuen me a rowse already
   Mon. Good-faith a litle one: not past a pint, as I am a
Souldier
   Iago. Some Wine hoa.
And let me the Cannakin clinke, clinke:
And let me the Cannakin clinke.
A Souldiers a man: Oh, mans life's but a span,
Why then let a Souldier drinke.
Some Wine Boyes
   Cas. 'Fore Heauen: an excellent Song
   Iago. I learn'd it in England: where indeed they are
most potent in Potting. Your Dane, your Germaine,
and your swag-belly'd Hollander, (drinke hoa) are
nothing to your English
   Cassio. Is your Englishmen so exquisite in his drinking?
  Iago. Why, he drinkes you with facillitie, your Dane
dead drunke. He sweates not to ouerthrow your Almaine.
He giues your Hollander a vomit, ere the next
Pottle can be fill'd
   Cas. To the health of our Generall
   Mon. I am for it Lieutenant: and Ile do you Iustice
   Iago. Oh sweet England.
King Stephen was anda worthy Peere,
His Breeches cost him but a Crowne,
He held them Six pence all to deere,
With that he cal'd the Tailor Lowne:
He was a wight of high Renowne,
And thou art but of low degree:
'Tis Pride that pulls the Country downe,
And take thy awl'd Cloake about thee.
Some Wine hoa
   Cassio. Why this is a more exquisite Song then the other
   Iago. Will you heare't againe?
  Cas. No: for I hold him to be vnworthy of his Place,
that do's those things. Well: heau'ns aboue all: and
there be soules must be saued, and there be soules must
not be saued
   Iago. It's true, good Lieutenant
   Cas. For mine owne part, no offence to the Generall,
nor any man of qualitie: I hope to be saued
   Iago. And so do I too Lieutenant
   Cassio. I: (but by your leaue) not before me. The
Lieutenant is to be saued before the Ancient. Let's haue
no more of this: let's to our Affaires. Forgiue vs our
sinnes: Gentlemen let's looke to our businesse. Do not
thinke Gentlemen, I am drunke: this is my Ancient, this
is my right hand, and this is my left. I am not drunke
now: I can stand well enough, and I speake well enough
   Gent. Excellent well
   Cas. Why very well then: you must not thinke then,
that I am drunke.
Enter.
  Monta. To th' Platforme (Masters) come, let's set the
Watch
   Iago. You see this Fellow, that is gone before,
He's a Souldier, fit to stand by Caesar,
And giue direction. And do but see his vice,
'Tis to his vertue, a iust Equinox,
The one as long as th' other. 'Tis pittie of him:
I feare the trust Othello puts him in,
On some odde time of his infirmitie
Will shake this Island
   Mont. But is he often thus?
  Iago. 'Tis euermore his prologue to his sleepe,
He'le watch the Horologe a double Set,
If Drinke rocke not his Cradle
