Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.
Enter Cassio, Musitians, and Clowne.
  Cassio. Masters, play heere, I wil content your paines,
Something that's briefe: and bid, goodmorrow General
   Clo. Why Masters, haue your Instruments bin in Naples,
that they speake i'th' Nose thus?
  Mus. How Sir? how?
  Clo. Are these I pray you, winde Instruments?
  Mus. I marry are they sir
   Clo. Oh, thereby hangs a tale
   Mus. Whereby hangs a tale, sir?
  Clow. Marry sir, by many a winde Instrument that I
know. But Masters, heere's money for you: and the Generall
so likes your Musick, that he desires you for loues
sake to make no more noise with it
   Mus. Well Sir, we will not
   Clo. If you haue any Musicke that may not be heard,
too't againe. But (as they say) to heare Musicke, the Generall
do's not greatly care
   Mus. We haue none such, sir
   Clow. Then put vp your Pipes in your bagge, for Ile
away. Go, vanish into ayre, away.
Exit Mu.
  Cassio. Dost thou heare me, mine honest Friend?
  Clo. No, I heare not your honest Friend:
I heare you
   Cassio. Prythee keepe vp thy Quillets, ther's a poore
peece of Gold for thee: if the Gentlewoman that attends
the Generall be stirring, tell her, there's one Cassio entreats
her a little fauour of Speech. Wilt thou do this?
  Clo. She is stirring sir: if she will stirre hither, I shall
seeme to notifie vnto her.
Exit Clo.
Enter Iago.
In happy time, Iago
   Iago. You haue not bin a-bed then?
  Cassio. Why no: the day had broke before we parted.
I haue made bold (Iago) to send in to your wife:
My suite to her is, that she will to vertuous Desdemona
Procure me some accesse
   Iago. Ile send her to you presently:
And Ile deuise a meane to draw the Moore
Out of the way, that your conuerse and businesse
May be more free.
Exit
  Cassio. I humbly thanke you for't. I neuer knew
A Florentine more kinde, and honest.
Enter aemilia.
Aemil. Goodmorrow (good Lieutenant) I am sorrie
For your displeasure: but all will sure be well.
The Generall and his wife are talking of it,
And she speakes for you stoutly. The Moore replies,
That he you hurt is of great Fame in Cyprus,
And great Affinitie: and that in wholsome Wisedome
He might not but refuse you. But he protests he loues you
And needs no other Suitor, but his likings
To bring you in againe
   Cassio. Yet I beseech you,
If you thinke fit, or that it may be done,
Giue me aduantage of some breefe Discourse
With Desdemon alone.
Aemil. Pray you come in:
I will bestow you where you shall haue time
To speake your bosome freely
   Cassio. I am much bound to you.
Scoena Secunda.
Enter Othello, Iago, and Gentlemen.
  Othe. These Letters giue (Iago) to the Pylot,
And by him do my duties to the Senate:
That done, I will be walking on the Workes,
Repaire there to mee
