   1 'Tis euen now at my elbow, perswading me not to
kill the Duke
   2 Take the diuell in thy minde, and beleeue him not:
He would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh
   1 I am strong fram'd, he cannot preuaile with me
   2 Spoke like a tall man, that respects thy reputation.
Come, shall we fall to worke?
  1 Take him on the Costard, with the hiltes of thy
Sword, and then throw him into the Malmesey-Butte in
the next roome
   2 O excellent deuice; and make a sop of him
   1 Soft, he wakes
   2 Strike
   1 No, wee'l reason with him
   Cla. Where art thou Keeper? Giue me a cup of wine
   2 You shall haue Wine enough my Lord anon
   Cla. In Gods name, what art thou?
  1 A man, as you are
   Cla. But not as I am Royall
   1 Nor you as we are, Loyall
   Cla. Thy voice is Thunder, but thy looks are humble
   1 My voice is now the Kings, my lookes mine owne
   Cla. How darkly, and how deadly dost thou speake?
Your eyes do menace me: why looke you pale?
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
  2 To, to, to-
  Cla. To murther me?
  Both. I, I
   Cla. You scarsely haue the hearts to tell me so,
And therefore cannot haue the hearts to do it.
Wherein my Friends haue I offended you?
  1 Offended vs you haue not, but the King
   Cla. I shall be reconcil'd to him againe
   2 Neuer my Lord, therefore prepare to dye
   Cla. Are you drawne forth among a world of men
To slay the innocent? What is my offence?
Where is the Euidence that doth accuse me?
What lawfull Quest haue giuen their Verdict vp
Vnto the frowning Iudge? Or who pronounc'd
The bitter sentence of poore Clarence death,
Before I be conuict by course of Law?
To threaten me with death, is most vnlawfull.
I charge you, as you hope for any goodnesse,
That you depart, and lay no hands on me:
The deed you vndertake is damnable
   1 What we will do, we do vpon command
   2 And he that hath commanded, is our King
   Cla. Erroneous Vassals, the great King of Kings
Hath in the Table of his Law commanded
That thou shalt do no murther. Will you then
Spurne at his Edict, and fulfill a Mans?
Take heed: for he holds Vengeance in his hand,
To hurle vpon their heads that breake his Law
   2 And that same Vengeance doth he hurle on thee,
For false Forswearing, and for murther too:
Thou did'st receiue the Sacrament, to fight
In quarrell of the House of Lancaster
   1 And like a Traitor to the name of God,
Did'st breake that Vow, and with thy treacherous blade,
Vnrip'st the Bowels of thy Sou'raignes Sonne
   2 Whom thou was't sworne to cherish and defend
   1 How canst thou vrge Gods dreadfull Law to vs,
When thou hast broke it in such deere degree?
  Cla. Alas! for whose sake did I that ill deede?
For Edward, for my Brother, for his sake.
He sends you not to murther me for this:
For in that sinne, he is as deepe as I.
If God will be auenged for the deed,
O know you yet, he doth it publiquely,
Take not the quarrell from his powrefull arme:
He needs no indirect, or lawlesse course,
To cut off those that haue offended him
