   Ar. Yes: Caliban her sonne
   Pro. Dull thing, I say so: he, that Caliban
Whom now I keepe in seruice, thou best know'st
What torment I did finde thee in; thy grones
Did make wolues howle, and penetrate the breasts
Of euer-angry Beares; it was a torment
To lay vpon the damn'd, which Sycorax
Could not againe vndoe: it was mine Art,
When I arriu'd, and heard thee, that made gape
The Pyne, and let thee out
   Ar. I thanke thee Master
   Pro. If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an Oake
And peg-thee in his knotty entrailes, till
Thou hast howl'd away twelue winters
   Ar. Pardon, Master,
I will be correspondent to command
And doe my spryting, gently
   Pro. Doe so: and after two daies
I will discharge thee
   Ar. That's my noble Master:
What shall I doe? say what? what shall I doe?
  Pro. Goe make thy selfe like a Nymph o'th' Sea,
Be subiect to no sight but thine, and mine: inuisible
To euery eye-ball else: goe take this shape
And hither come in't: goe: hence
With diligence.
Enter.
  Pro. Awake, deere hart awake, thou hast slept well,
Awake
   Mir. The strangenes of your story, put
Heauinesse in me
   Pro. Shake it off: Come on,
Wee'll visit Caliban, my slaue, who neuer
Yeelds vs kinde answere
   Mir. 'Tis a villaine Sir, I doe not loue to looke on
   Pro. But as 'tis
We cannot misse him: he do's make our fire,
Fetch in our wood, and serues in Offices
That profit vs: What hoa: slaue: Caliban:
Thou Earth, thou: speake
   Cal. within. There's wood enough within
   Pro. Come forth I say, there's other busines for thee:
Come thou Tortoys, when?
Enter Ariel like a water Nymph.
Fine apparision: my queint Ariel,
Hearke in thine eare
   Ar. My Lord, it shall be done.
Enter.
  Pro. Thou poysonous slaue, got by y diuell himselfe
Vpon thy wicked Dam; come forth.
Enter Caliban.
  Cal. As wicked dewe, as ere my mother brush'd
With Rauens feather from vnwholesome Fen
Drop on you both: A Southwest blow on yee,
And blister you all ore
   Pro. For this be sure, to night thou shalt haue cramps,
Side-stitches, that shall pen thy breath vp, Vrchins
Shall for that vast of night, that they may worke
All exercise on thee: thou shalt be pinch'd
As thicke as hony-combe, each pinch more stinging
Then Bees that made 'em
   Cal. I must eat my dinner:
This Island's mine by Sycorax my mother,
Which thou tak'st from me: when thou cam'st first
Thou stroakst me, & made much of me: wouldst giue me
Water with berries in't: and teach me how
To name the bigger Light, and how the lesse
That burne by day, and night: and then I lou'd thee
And shew'd thee all the qualities o'th' Isle,
The fresh Springs, Brine-pits; barren place and fertill,
Curs'd be I that did so: All the Charmes
Of Sycorax: Toades, Beetles, Batts light on you:
For I am all the Subiects that you haue,
Which first was min owne King: and here you sty-me
In this hard Rocke, whiles you doe keepe from me
The rest o'th' Island
