It is the parents, not the children, that have sinned, and the sin of
the parents is visited upon their innocent offspring. This is the burden
of the prologue; and it is most emphatically repeated at the close of
the play.
The feud of the two households and the civil strife that it has caused
are the first things to which the attention of those who are to witness
the play is called. Next they are told that the children of these two
foes become lovers--not foolish, rash, imprudent lovers, not victims of
disobedience to their parents, not in any way responsible for what they
afterwards suffer--but "star-cross'd lovers." The fault is not in
themselves, but in their stars--in their _fate_ as the offspring of
these hostile parents. But their unfortunate and piteous overthrow is
the means by which the fatal feud of the two families is brought to an
end. The "death-mark'd love" of the children--love as pure as it was
passionate, love true from first to last to the divine law of
love--while by an evil destiny it brings death to themselves, involves
also the death of the _hate_ which was the primal cause of all the
tragic consequences.
This is no less distinctly expressed in the last speeches of the play.
After hearing the Friar's story, the Prince says:--
  "Where be these enemies?--Capulet!--Montague!
  See what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
  That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
  And I, for winking at your discords too,
  Have lost a brace of kinsmen; all are punish'd.
  _Capulet._ O brother Montague, give me thy hand;
  This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
  Can I demand.
  _Montague._ But I can give thee more;
  For I will raise her statue in pure gold,
  That while Verona by that name is known
  There shall no figure at such rate be set
  As that of true and faithful Juliet.
  _Capulet._ As rich shall Romeo by his lady lie;
  Poor sacrifices of our enmity!"
It is the parents who are punished. The scourge is laid upon their
_hate_, and it was the _love_ of their children by which Heaven found
the means to wield that scourge. The Prince himself has a share in the
penalty for tolerating the discords of the families. "We all," he says,
"_all_ are punished." But the good Friar's hope, expressed when he
consented to perform the marriage,--
  "For this alliance may so happy prove
  To turn your households' rancour to pure love,"--
is now fulfilled. Both Capulet and Montague, as they join hands in amity
over the dead bodies of their children, acknowledge the debt they owe to
the "star-cross'd" love of those "poor sacrifices of their enmity." They
vie with each other in doing honour to the guiltless victims of their
"pernicious rage." Montague will raise the golden statue to Juliet, and
Capulet promises as rich a monument to Romeo.
Da Porto and Paynter and Brooke, in like manner, refer to the
reconciliation of the rival families as the fortunate result of the
tragic history. Da Porto says: "Their fathers, weeping over the bodies
of their children and overcome by mutual pity, embraced each other; so
that the long enmity between them and their houses, which neither the
prayers of their friends, nor the menaces of the Prince, nor even time
itself had been able to extinguish, was ended by the piteous death of
the two lovers." As Paynter puts it, "The Montesches and Capellets
poured forth such abundance of tears, as with the same they did evacuate
their ancient grudge and choler, whereby they were then reconciled: and
they which could not be brought to atonement[3] by any wisdom or human
counsel were in the end vanquished and made friends by pity." So
Brooke, in his lumbering verse:--
