    FRAN.                  Sir, he may live:
    I saw him beat the surges under him,
    And ride upon their backs; he trod the water,
    Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted
    The surge most swoln that met him: his bold head
    'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd
    Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
    To the shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bow'd,
    As stooping to relieve him: I not doubt
    He came alive to land.
    ALON.                  No, no, he's gone.
    SEB. Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
    That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
    But rather lose her to an African;
    Where she at least is banish'd from your eye,
    Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
    ALON.                  Prithee, peace.
    SEB. You were kneel'd to and importuned otherwise
    By all of us, and the fair soul herself
    Weigh'd between loathness and obedience, at
    Which end o' the beam should bow. We have lost your son,
    I fear, for ever: Milan and Naples have
    Mo widows in them of this business' making
    Than we bring men to comfort them:
    The fault's your own.
    ALON.                  So is the dear'st o' the loss.
    GON. My lord Sebastian,
    The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness
    And time to speak it in: you rub the sore,
    When you should bring the plaster.
    SEB.                   Very well.
ANT. And most chirurgeonly.
    GON. It is foul weather in us all, good sir,
    When you are cloudy.
SEB. Foul weather?
ANT. Very foul.
GON. Had I plantation of this isle, my lord,--
ANT. He'ld sow't with nettle-seed.
[Illustration:
    ANTONIO:  '_Here lies your brother,
      No better than the earth he lies upon_' (page 61).]
SEB. Or docks, or mallows
GON. And were the king on't, what would I do?
SEB. 'Scape being drunk for want of wine.
    GON. I' the commonwealth I would by contraries
    Execute all things: for no kind of traffic
    Would I admit; no name of magistrate:
    Letters should not be known; riches, poverty,
    And use of service, none; contract, succession,
    Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none;
    No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
    No occupation: all men idle, all;
    And women too, but innocent and pure;
    No sovereignty;--
SEB. Yet he would be king on't.
ANT. The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the beginning.
    GON. All things in common nature should produce
    Without sweat or endeavour: treason, felony,
    Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
    Would I not have; but nature should bring forth,
    Of its own kind, all foison, all abundance,
    To feed my innocent people.
SEB. No marrying 'mong his subjects?
ANT. None, man; all idle.
    GON. I would with such perfection govern, sir,
    To excel the golden age.
SEB. Save his majesty!
ANT. Long live Gonzalo!
GON. And,--do you mark me, sir?
ALON. Prithee, no more: thou dost talk nothing to me.
GON. I do well believe your highness; and did it to minister occasion
to these gentlemen, who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they
always use to laugh at nothing.
