[Footnote 1: This is strong evidence that the play had not been printed
at an earlier date.]
[Footnote 2: "... Absolute in their numbers, as he conceiued them....
His mind and hand went together: And what he thought, he vttered with
that easinesse, that wee haue scarse receiued from him a blot in his
papers" (Heminge and Condell's Address "To the great Variety of
Readers," First Folio).]
[Footnote 3: Mr. F. G. Fleay in his Shakespeare Manual (1876) argues that
"this play as we have it is an abridgement of Shakespeare's play made by
Ben Jonson."]
The Second Folio, F2 (1632), the Third Folio, F3 (1663, 1664), and the
Fourth Folio, F4 (1685), show few variants in the text of _Julius
Caesar_ and none of importance.
THE QUARTO OF 1691
In 1691 _Julius Caesar_ appeared in quarto form. This Quarto contained
one famous text variant, 'hath' for 'path' in II, i, 83. Though the
Folio text here offers difficulties, and modern editors have suggested
many emendations, no one has been inclined to accept the commonplace
reading of the Quarto.
ROWE'S EDITIONS
In the Folios and in the Quarto of 1691 the play is divided into acts,
but not into scenes, though the first act is headed _Actus Primus, Scaena
Prima_. The first systematic division into scenes was made by Nicholas
Rowe, poet laureate to George I, in the edition which he issued in six
octavo volumes in 1709. In this edition Rowe, an experienced playwright,
marked the entrances and exits of the characters and introduced many
stage directions and the list of dramatis personae which has been the
basis for all later lists. A second edition in eight volumes was
published in 1714. Rowe followed very closely the text of the Fourth
Folio, but modernized spelling, punctuation, and occasionally grammar.
These are the first critical editions of Shakespeare's plays.
IV. THE TITLE
It has been justly observed that Shakespeare shows much judgment in the
naming of his plays. From this observation several critics have excepted
_Julius Caesar_, pronouncing the title a misnomer, on the ground that
Brutus, and not Caesar, is the hero of it. It is indeed true that Brutus
is the hero, but the play is rightly named, for Caesar is not only the
subject but also the governing power of it throughout. He is the center
and springhead of the entire action, giving law and shape to everything
that is said and done. This is manifestly true in what occurs before his
death; and it is true in a still deeper sense afterwards, since his
genius then becomes the Nemesis or retributive Providence.
V. DRAMATIC CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
_Julius Caesar_ is a tragedy of a normal Shakespearian type, in which is
represented a conflict between an individual, or group of individuals,
and certain forces which environ, antagonize, and overwhelm. The unity
of action and of interest is the personality of Julius Caesar. In
dramatic technique the play is simple and effective. Out of masses of
detail and historical incident the dramatist has shaped a symmetrical
and well-defined plot marked by (1) the exposition, or introduction, (2)
the complication, or rising action, (3) the climax, or turning point,
(4) the resolution, or falling action, and (5) the catastrophe, or
conclusion. It is almost a commonplace of criticism that the opening
scene of a Shakespeare play strikes the keynote of the action. It
certainly does in a remarkable way in _Julius Caesar_, introducing, on
the one side, a group of excited citizens friendly to Caesar, and, on
the other, two tribunes hostile to him. It foreshadows the
character-contrasts in the play and the conflict between the state and
the individual. The exposition continues through the second scene, in
which are introduced the leading characters in significant action and
interaction. At the close of this scene Cassius lays his plans to win
Brutus over to the conspiracy, and the complication, or rising action,
of the drama begins. Through the last scene of the first act and the
four scenes of the second act the growth of the complication is
continued, with brief intervals of suspense, until, in the first scene
of the third act, the climax is reached in the assassination of Caesar
and the wild enthusiasm of the conspirators. With the entry of Antony's
servant begins the resolution, or falling action (see note, p. 89, l.
123), and from now, through intervals of long suspense and many
vicissitudes,[1] the fortunes of the chief conspirators fall inevitably
to the catastrophe.
