CORIOLANUS.
Kindly! sir, I pray, let me ha't: I have wounds to show you,
which shall be yours in private.--Your good voice, sir; what
say you?
SECOND CITIZEN.
You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
CORIOLANUS.
A match, sir.--There's in all two worthy voices begg'd.--I have
your alms: adieu.
FIRST CITIZEN.
But this is something odd.
SECOND CITIZEN.
An 'twere to give again,-- but 'tis no matter.
[Exeunt two citizens.]
[Re-enter other two citizens.]
CORIOLANUS.
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I
may be consul, I have here the customary gown.
THIRD CITIZEN.
You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not
deserved nobly.
CORIOLANUS.
Your enigma?
THIRD CITIZEN.
You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to
her friends: you have not indeed loved the common people.
CORIOLANUS.
You should account me the more virtuous, that I have not been
common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my sworn brother, the
people, to earn a dearer estimation of them; 'tis a condition
they account gentle: and since the wisdom of their choice is
rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise the
insinuating nod and be off to them most counterfeitly: that is,
sir, I will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man
and give it bountifully to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you,
I may be consul.
FOURTH CITIZEN.
We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give you our voices
heartily.
THIRD CITIZEN.
You have received many wounds for your country.
CORIOLANUS.
I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I will make
much of your voices, and so trouble you no further.
BOTH CITIZENS.
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!
[Exeunt citizens.]
CORIOLANUS.
Most sweet voices!--
Better it is to die, better to starve,
Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
Why in this wolvish toge should I stand here,
To beg of Hob and Dick that do appear,
Their needless vouches? custom calls me to't:--
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
And mountainous error be too highly heap'd
For truth to o'erpeer. Rather than fool it so,
Let the high office and the honour go
To one that would do thus.--I am half through;
The one part suffer'd, the other will I do.
Here come more voices.
[Re-enter other three citizens.]
Your voices: for your voices I have fought;
Watch'd for your voices; for your voices bear
Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
Done many things, some less, some more: your voices:
Indeed, I would be consul.
FIFTH CITIZEN.
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice.
SIXTH CITIZEN.
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy, and make him
good friend to the people!
ALL THREE CITIZENS.
Amen, amen.--God save thee, noble consul!
