[Exit SERVANT.]
Draw nearer, honest Flaminius.Thy lord's a bountiful gentleman;
but thou art wise, and thou know'st well enough, although thou
comest to me, that this is no time to lend money, especially upon
bare friendship without security. Here's three solidares for
thee: good boy, wink at me, and say thou sawest me not. Fare thee
well.
FLAMINIUS.
Is't possible the world should so much differ,
And we alive that liv'd? Fly, damned baseness,
To him that worships thee.
[Throwing the money away.]
LUCULLUS.
Ha! now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.
[Exit.]
FLAMINIUS.
May these add to the number that may scald thee!
Let molten coin be thy damnation,
Thou disease of a friend, and not himself!
Has friendship such a faint and milky heart
It turns in less than two nights? O you gods!
I feel my master's passion! This slave unto his honour
Has my lord's meat in him:
Why should it thrive and turn to nutriment
When he is turn'd to poison?
O! may diseases only work upon't!
And when he's sick to death, let not that part of nature
Which my lord paid for, be of any power
To expel sickness, but prolong his hour.
[Exit.]
Scene II. A Public Place.
[Enter Lucius, with three STRANGERS.]
LUCIUS.
Who, the Lord Timon? he is my very good friend, and an
honourable gentleman.
FIRST STRANGER.
We know him for no less, though we are but strangers to him. But
I can tell you one thing, my lord, and which I hear from common
rumours: now Lord Timon's happy hours are done and past, and his
estate shrinks from him.
LUCIUS.
Fie, no, do not believe it; he cannot want for money.
SECOND STRANGER.
But believe you this, my lord, that, not long ago, one of his men
was with the Lord Lucullus to borrow so many talents, nay, urged
extremely for't, and showed what necessity belonged to't, and yet
was denied.
LUCIUS.
How!
SECOND STRANGER.
I tell you, denied, my lord.
LUCIUS.
What a strange case was that! now, before the gods, I am
ashamed on't. Denied that honourable man! there was very little
honour showed in't. For my own part, I must needs confess, I have
received some small kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewels,
and such like trifles, nothing comparing to his; yet, had he
mistook him, and sent to me, I should ne'er have denied his
occasion so many talents.
[Enter SERVILIUS.]
SERVILIUS.
See, by good hap, yonder's my lord; I have sweat to see
his honour. [To LUCIUS.] My honoured lord!
LUCIUS.
Servilius! you are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well: commend
me to thy honourable virtuous lord, my very exquisite friend.
SERVILIUS.
May it please your honour, my lord hath sent--
LUCIUS.
Ha! What has he sent? I am so much endeared to that lord;
he's ever sending: how shall I thank him, thinkest thou? And what
has he sent now?
SERVILIUS.
Has only sent his present occasion now, my lord;
requesting your lordship to supply his instant use with so many
talents.
