TIMON.
Captain Alcibiades, your heart's in the field now.
ALCIBIADES.
My heart is ever at your service, my lord.
TIMON.
You had rather be at a breakfast of enemies than a dinner of
friends.
ALCIBIADES.
So they were bleeding--new, my lord, there's no meat
like 'em: I could wish my best friend at such a feast.
APEMANTUS.
'Would all those flatterers were thine enemies then, that
then thou mightst kill 'em, and bid me to 'em.
FIRST LORD.
Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you
would once use our hearts, whereby we might express some part of
our zeals, we should think ourselves for ever perfect.
TIMON.
O, no doubt, my good friends, but the gods themselves have
provided that I shall have much help from you: how had you been
my friends else? why have you that charitable title from
thousands, did not you chiefly belong to my heart? I have told
more of you to myself than you can with modesty speak in your own
behalf; and thus far I confirm you. O you gods! think I, what
need we have any friends if we should ne'er have need of 'em?
they were the most needless creatures living, should we ne'er
have use for 'em; and would most resemble sweet instruments hung
up in cases, that keep their sounds to themselves. Why, I have
often wished myself poorer that I might come nearer to you. We
are born to do benefits; and what better or properer can we call
our own than the riches of our friends? O! what a precious
comfort 'tis to have so many, like brothers, commanding one
another's fortunes! O joy! e'en made away ere it can be born.
Mine eyes cannot hold out water, methinks: to forget their
faults, I drink to you.
APEMANTUS.
Thou weepest to make them drink, Timon.
SECOND LORD.
Joy had the like conception in our eyes,
And, at that instant like a babe, sprung up.
APEMANTUS.
Ho, ho! I laugh to think that babe a bastard.
THIRD LORD.
I promise you, my lord, you mov'd me much.
APEMANTUS.
Much!
[Tucket sounded.]
TIMON.
What means that trump?
[Enter a SERVANT.]
How now!
SERVANT.
Please you, my lord, there are certain ladies most desirous of
admittance.
TIMON.
Ladies? What are their wills?
SERVANT.
There comes with them a forerunner, my lord, which bears
that office, to signify their pleasures.
TIMON.
I pray, let them be admitted.
[Enter CUPID.]
CUPID.
Hail to thee, worthy Timon; and to all
That of his bounties taste! The five best Senses
Acknowledge thee their patron; and come freely
To gratulate thy plenteous bosom. Th' Ear,
Taste, Touch, Smell, pleas'd from thy table rise;
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
TIMON.
They are welcome all; let 'em have kind admittance:
Music, make their welcome!
[Exit CUPID.]
FIRST LORD.
You see, my lord, how ample you're belov'd.
[Music. Re-enter CUPID, with a masque of LADIES as Amazons,
with lutes in their hands, dancing and playing.]
