MARCIUS.
Those are they
That most are willing.--If any such be here,--
As it were sin to doubt,--that love this painting
Wherein you see me smear'd; if any fear
Lesser his person than an ill report;
If any think brave death outweighs bad life,
And that his country's dearer than himself;
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
Wave thus [waving his hand], to express his disposition,
And follow Marcius.
[They all shout and wave their swords; take him up in their arms
and cast up their caps.]
O, me alone! Make you a sword of me?
If these shows be not outward, which of you
But is four Volsces? none of you but is
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
Though thanks to all, must I select from all: the rest
Shall bear the business in some other fight,
As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march;
And four shall quickly draw out my command,
Which men are best inclin'd.
COMINIUS.
March on, my fellows;
Make good this ostentation, and you shall
Divide in all with us.
[Exeunt.]
SCENE VII. The gates of Corioli.
[TITUS LARTIUS, having set a guard upon Corioli, going with drum
and trumpet toward COMINIUS and CAIUS MARCIUS, enters with a
LIEUTENANT, a party of Soldiers, and a Scout.]
LARTIUS.
So, let the ports be guarded: keep your duties
As I have set them down. If I do send, despatch
Those centuries to our aid; the rest will serve
For a short holding: if we lose the field
We cannot keep the town.
LIEUTENANT.
Fear not our care, sir.
LARTIUS.
Hence, and shut your gates upon's.--
Our guider, come; to the Roman camp conduct us.
[Exeunt.]
SCENE VIII. A field of battle between the Roman and the Volscian
camps.
[Alarum. Enter, from opposite sides, MARCIUS and AUFIDIUS.]
MARCIUS.
I'll fight with none but thee, for I do hate thee
Worse than a promise-breaker.
AUFIDIUS.
We hate alike:
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
MARCIUS.
Let the first budger die the other's slave,
And the gods doom him after!
AUFIDIUS.
If I fly, Marcius,
Halloo me like a hare.
MARCIUS.
Within these three hours, Tullus,
Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
And made what work I pleas'd: 'tis not my blood
Wherein thou seest me mask'd: for thy revenge
Wrench up thy power to the highest.
AUFIDIUS.
Wert thou the Hector
That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,
Thou shouldst not scape me here.--
[They fight, and certain Volsces come to the aid of AUFIDIUS.]
Officious, and not valiant,--you have sham'd me
In your condemned seconds.
[Exeunt fighting, driven in by MAR.]
SCENE IX. The Roman camp.
[Alarum. A retreat is sounded. Flourish. Enter, at one side,
COMINIUS and Romans; at the other side, MARCIUS, with his arm
in a scarf, and other Romans.]
COMINIUS.
If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
Thou't not believe thy deeds: but I'll report it
Where senators shall mingle tears with smiles;
Where great patricians shall attend, and shrug,
I' the end admire; where ladies shall be frighted
And, gladly quak'd, hear more; where the dull tribunes,
That, with the fusty plebeians, hate thine honours,
Shall say, against their hearts 'We thank the gods
Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
Yet cam'st thou to a morsel of this feast,
Having fully dined before.
