[Trumpets, sennet, and cornets. Enter two Vergers, with short
silver wands; next them, two Scribes, in the habit of doctors;
after them, the Archbishop of Canterbury alone; after him, the
Bishops of Lincoln, Ely, Rochester, and Saint Asaph; next them,
with some small distance, follows a Gentleman bearing the
purse, with the great seal, and a cardinal's hat; then two
Priests, bearing each silver cross; then a Gentleman Usher
bareheaded, accompanied with a Sergeant-at-arms bearing a
silver mace; then two Gentlemen bearing two great silver
pillars; after them, side by side, the two Cardinals; two
Noblemen with the sword and mace.  The King takes place under the
cloth of state; the two Cardinals sit under him as judges.  The
Queen takes place some distance from the King. The Bishops place
themselves on each side the court, in manner of consistory; below
them, the Scribes. The Lords sit next the Bishops. The rest of
the Attendants stand in convenient order about the stage.]
WOLSEY.
Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
Let silence be commanded.
KING.
What's the need?
It hath already publicly been read,
And on all sides the authority allow'd;
You may, then, spare that time.
WOLSEY.
Be't so.  Proceed.
SCRIBE.
Say, Henry King of England, come into the court.
CRIER.
Henry King of England, etc.
KING.
Here.
SCRIBE.
Say, Katherine Queen of England, come into the court.
CRIER.
Katherine Queen of England, etc.
[The Queen makes no answer, rises out of her chair, goes about
the court, comes to the King, and kneels at his feet; then
speaks.]
QUEEN KATHERINE.
Sir, I desire you do me right and justice,
And to bestow your pity on me; for
I am a most poor woman, and a stranger,
Born out of your dominions, having here
No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
In what have I offended you? What cause
Hath my behaviour given to your displeasure,
That thus you should proceed to put me off
And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness,
I have been to you a true and humble wife,
At all times to your will conformable;
Ever in fear to kindle your dislike,
Yea, subject to your countenance, glad or sorry
As I saw it inclin'd. When was the hour
I ever contradicted your desire,
Or made it not mine too? Or which of your friends
Have I not strove to love, although I knew
He were mine enemy? What friend of mine
That had to him deriv'd your anger, did I
Continue in my liking? nay, gave notice
He was from thence discharg'd? Sir, call to mind
That I have been your wife in this obedience
Upward of twenty years, and have been blest
With many children by you. If, in the course
And process of this time, you can report,
And prove it too, against mine honour aught,
My bond to wedlock, or my love and duty,
Against your sacred person, in God's name,
Turn me away; and let the foul'st contempt
Shut door upon me, and so give me up
To the sharp'st kind of justice. Please you, sir,
The King, your father, was reputed for
A prince most prudent, of an excellent
And unmatch'd wit and judgment; Ferdinand,
My father, King of Spain, was reckon'd one
The wisest prince that there had reign'd by many
A year before; it is not to be question'd
That they had gather'd a wise council to them
Of every realm, that did debate this business,
Who deem'd our marriage lawful; wherefore I humbly
Beseech you, sir, to spare me till I may
Be by my friends in Spain advis'd, whose counsel
I will implore. If not, i' the name of God,
Your pleasure be fulfill'd!
