LEONTES.
                              On your allegiance,
Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,
Where were her life? She durst not call me so,
If she did know me one. Away with her!
PAULINA.
I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.--
Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours: Jove send her
A better guiding spirit!--What needs these hands?
You that are thus so tender o'er his follies,
Will never do him good, not one of you.
So, so:--farewell; we are gone.
[Exit.]
LEONTES.
Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.
My child?--away with't.--even thou, that hast
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence,
And see it instantly consum'd with fire;
Even thou, and none but thou. Take it up straight:
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,--
And by good testimony,--or I'll seize thy life,
With that thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse,
And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so;
The bastard-brains with these my proper hands
Shall I dash out. Go, take it to the fire;
For thou set'st on thy wife.
ANTIGONUS.
                             I did not, sir:
These lords, my noble fellows, if they please,
Can clear me in't.
LORDS.
                   We can:--my royal liege,
He is not guilty of her coming hither.
LEONTES.
You're liars all.
FIRST LORD.
Beseech your highness, give us better credit:
We have always truly serv'd you; and beseech
So to esteem of us: and on our knees we beg,--
As recompense of our dear services,
Past and to come,--that you do change this purpose,
Which, being so horrible, so bloody, must
Lead on to some foul issue: we all kneel.
LEONTES.
I am a feather for each wind that blows:--
Shall I live on, to see this bastard kneel
And call me father? better burn it now,
Than curse it then. But, be it; let it live:--
It shall not neither.--[To ANTIGONUS.] You, sir, come you hither:
You that have been so tenderly officious
With Lady Margery, your midwife, there,
To save this bastard's life,--for 'tis a bastard,
So sure as this beard's grey,--what will you adventure
To save this brat's life?
ANTIGONUS.
                          Anything, my lord,
That my ability may undergo,
And nobleness impose: at least, thus much;
I'll pawn the little blood which I have left
To save the innocent:--anything possible.
LEONTES.
It shall be possible. Swear by this sword
Thou wilt perform my bidding.
ANTIGONUS.
                              I will, my lord.
LEONTES.
Mark, and perform it,--seest thou? for the fail
Of any point in't shall not only be
Death to thyself, but to thy lewd-tongu'd wife,
Whom for this time we pardon. We enjoin thee,
As thou art liegeman to us, that thou carry
This female bastard hence; and that thou bear it
To some remote and desert place, quite out
Of our dominions; and that there thou leave it,
Without more mercy, to it own protection
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
It came to us, I do in justice charge thee,
On thy soul's peril and thy body's torture,
That thou commend it strangely to some place
Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
