   Tit. Do you heare, sir?
  2.Varro. By your leaue, sir
   Stew. What do ye aske of me, my Friend
   Tit. We waite for certaine Money heere, sir
   Stew. I, if Money were as certaine as your waiting,
'Twere sure enough.
Why then preferr'd you not your summes and Billes
When your false Masters eate of my Lords meat?
Then they could smile, and fawne vpon his debts.
And take downe th' Intrest into their glutt'nous Mawes.
You do your selues but wrong, to stirre me vp,
Let me passe quietly:
Beleeue't, my Lord and I haue made an end,
I haue no more to reckon, he to spend
   Luci. I, but this answer will not serue
   Stew. If't 'twill not serue, 'tis not so base as you,
For you serue Knaues
   1.Varro. How? What does his casheer'd Worship
mutter?
  2.Varro. No matter what, hee's poore, and that's reuenge
enough. Who can speake broader, then hee that
has no house to put his head in? Such may rayle against
great buildings.
Enter Seruilius.
  Tit. Oh heere's Seruilius: now wee shall know some
answere
   Seru. If I might beseech you Gentlemen, to repayre
some other houre, I should deriue much from't. For tak't
of my soule, my Lord leanes wondrously to discontent:
His comfortable temper has forsooke him, he's much out
of health, and keepes his Chamber
   Luci. Many do keepe their Chambers, are not sicke:
And if it be so farre beyond his health,
Me thinkes he should the sooner pay his debts,
And make a cleere way to the Gods
   Seruil. Good Gods
   Titus. We cannot take this for answer, sir
   Flaminius within. Seruilius helpe, my Lord, my Lord.
Enter Timon in a rage.
  Tim. What, are my dores oppos'd against my passage?
Haue I bin euer free, and must my house
Be my retentiue Enemy? My Gaole?
The place which I haue Feasted, does it now
(Like all Mankinde) shew me an Iron heart?
  Luci. Put in now Titus
   Tit. My Lord, heere is my Bill
   Luci. Here's mine
   1.Var. And mine, my Lord
   2.Var. And ours, my Lord
   Philo. All our Billes
   Tim. Knocke me downe with 'em, cleaue mee to the
Girdle
   Luc. Alas, my Lord
   Tim. Cut my heart in summes
   Tit. Mine, fifty Talents
   Tim. Tell out my blood
   Luc. Fiue thousand Crownes, my Lord
   Tim. Fiue thousand drops payes that.
What yours? and yours?
  1.Var. My Lord
   2.Var. My Lord
   Tim. Teare me, take me, and the Gods fall vpon you.
Exit Timon.
  Hort. Faith I perceiue our Masters may throwe their
caps at their money, these debts may well be call'd desperate
ones, for a madman owes 'em.
Exeunt.
Enter Timon.
  Timon. They haue e'ene put my breath from mee the
slaues. Creditors? Diuels
   Stew. My deere Lord
   Tim. What if it should be so?
  Stew. My Lord
   Tim. Ile haue it so. My Steward?
  Stew. Heere my Lord
   Tim. So fitly? Go, bid all my Friends againe,
Lucius, Lucullus, and Sempronius Vllorxa: All,
Ile once more feast the Rascals
