   Aper. Much.
Sound Tucket. Enter the Maskers of Amazons, with Lutes in their
hands,
dauncing and playing.
  Tim. What meanes that Trumpe? How now?
Enter Seruant.
  Ser. Please you my Lord, there are certaine Ladies
Most desirous of admittance
   Tim. Ladies? what are their wils?
  Ser. There comes with them a fore-runner my Lord,
which beares that office, to signifie their pleasures
   Tim. I pray let them be admitted.
Enter Cupid with the Maske of Ladies.
  Cup. Haile to thee worthy Timon and to all that of
his Bounties taste: the fiue best Sences acknowledge thee
their Patron, and come freely to gratulate thy plentious
bosome.
There tast, touch all, pleas'd from thy Table rise:
They onely now come but to Feast thine eies
   Timo. They'r welcome all, let 'em haue kind admittance.
Musicke make their welcome
   Luc. You see my Lord, how ample y'are belou'd
   Aper. Hoyday,
What a sweepe of vanitie comes this way.
They daunce? They are madwomen,
Like Madnesse is the glory of this life,
As this pompe shewes to a little oyle and roote.
We make our selues Fooles, to disport our selues,
And spend our Flatteries, to drinke those men,
Vpon whose Age we voyde it vp agen
With poysonous Spight and Enuy.
Who liues, that's not depraued, or depraues;
Who dyes, that beares not one spurne to their graues
Of their Friends guift:
I should feare, those that dance before me now,
Would one day stampe vpon me: 'Tas bene done,
Men shut their doores against a setting Sunne.
The Lords rise from Table, with much adoring of Timon, and to
shew their
loues, each single out an Amazon, and all Dance, men with
women, a loftie
straine or two to the Hoboyes, and cease.
  Tim. You haue done our pleasures
Much grace (faire Ladies)
Set a faire fashion on our entertainment,
Which was not halfe so beautifull, and kinde:
You haue added worth vntoo't, and luster,
And entertain'd me with mine owne deuice.
I am to thanke you for't
   1 Lord. My Lord you take vs euen at the best
   Aper. Faith for the worst is filthy, and would not hold
taking, I doubt me
   Tim. Ladies, there is an idle banquet attends you,
Please you to dispose your selues
   All La. Most thankfully, my Lord.
Exeunt.
  Tim. Flauius
   Fla. My Lord
   Tim. The little Casket bring me hither
   Fla. Yes, my Lord. More Iewels yet?
There is no crossing him in's humor,
Else I should tell him well, yfaith I should;
When all's spent, hee'ld be crost then, and he could:
'Tis pitty Bounty had not eyes behinde,
That man might ne're be wretched for his minde.
Enter.
  1 Lord. Where be our men?
  Ser. Heere my Lord, in readinesse
   2 Lord. Our Horses
   Tim. O my Friends:
I haue one word to say to you: Looke you, my good L[ord].
I must intreat you honour me so much,
As to aduance this Iewell, accept it, and weare it,
Kinde my Lord
