   Ol. Yet come againe: for thou perhaps mayst moue
That heart which now abhorres, to like his loue.
Exeunt.
Scoena Secunda.
Enter Sir Toby, Sir Andrew, and Fabian.
  And. No faith, Ile not stay a iot longer:
  To. Thy reason deere venom, giue thy reason
   Fab. You must needes yeelde your reason, Sir Andrew?
  And. Marry I saw your Neece do more fauours to the
Counts Seruing-man, then euer she bestow'd vpon mee:
I saw't i'th Orchard
   To. Did she see the while, old boy, tell me that
   And. As plaine as I see you now
   Fab. This was a great argument of loue in her toward
you
   And. S'light; will you make an Asse o'me
   Fab. I will proue it legitimate sir, vpon the Oathes of
iudgement, and reason
   To. And they haue beene grand Iurie men, since before
Noah was a Saylor
   Fab. Shee did shew fauour to the youth in your sight,
onely to exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour,
to put fire in your Heart, and brimstone in your Liuer:
you should then haue accosted her, and with some excellent
iests, fire-new from the mint, you should haue bangd
the youth into dumbenesse: this was look'd for at your
hand, and this was baulkt: the double gilt of this opportunitie
you let time wash off, and you are now sayld into
the North of my Ladies opinion, where you will hang
like an ysickle on a Dutchmans beard, vnlesse you do redeeme
it, by some laudable attempt, either of valour or
policie
   And. And't be any way, it must be with Valour, for
policie I hate: I had as liefe be a Brownist, as a Politician
   To. Why then build me thy fortunes vpon the basis of
valour. Challenge me the Counts youth to fight with him
hurt him in eleuen places, my Neece shall take note of it,
and assure thy selfe, there is no loue-Broker in the world,
can more preuaile in mans commendation with woman,
then report of valour
   Fab. There is no way but this sir Andrew
   An. Will either of you beare me a challenge to him?
  To. Go, write it in a martial hand, be curst and briefe:
it is no matter how wittie, so it bee eloquent, and full of
inuention: taunt him with the license of Inke: if thou
thou'st him some thrice, it shall not be amisse, and as many
Lyes, as will lye in thy sheete of paper, although the
sheete were bigge enough for the bedde of Ware in England,
set 'em downe, go about it. Let there bee gaulle enough
in thy inke, though thou write with a Goose-pen,
no matter: about it
   And. Where shall I finde you?
  To. Wee'l call thee at the Cubiculo: Go.
Exit Sir Andrew.
  Fa. This is a deere Manakin to you Sir Toby
   To. I haue beene deere to him lad, some two thousand
strong, or so
   Fa. We shall haue a rare Letter from him; but you'le
not deliuer't
