   To. What, what?
  Mal. You must amend your drunkennesse
   To. Out scab
   Fab. Nay patience, or we breake the sinewes of our
plot?
  Mal. Besides you waste the treasure of your time,
with a foolish knight
   And. That's mee I warrant you
   Mal. One sir Andrew
   And. I knew 'twas I, for many do call mee foole
   Mal. What employment haue we heere?
  Fa. Now is the Woodcocke neere the gin
   To. Oh peace, and the spirit of humors intimate reading
aloud to him
   Mal. By my life this is my Ladies hand: these bee her
very C's, her V's, and her T's, and thus makes shee her
great P's. It is in contempt of question her hand
   An. Her C's, her V's, and her T's: why that?
  Mal. To the vnknowne belou'd, this, and my good Wishes:
Her very Phrases: By your leaue wax. Soft, and the impressure
her Lucrece, with which she vses to seale: tis my
Lady: To whom should this be?
  Fab. This winnes him, Liuer and all
   Mal. Ioue knowes I loue, but who, Lips do not mooue, no
man must know. No man must know. What followes?
The numbers alter'd: No man must know,
If this should be thee Maluolio?
  To. Marrie hang thee brocke
   Mal. I may command where I adore, but silence like a Lucresse
knife:
With bloodlesse stroke my heart doth gore, M.O.A.I. doth
sway my life
   Fa. A fustian riddle
   To. Excellent Wench, say I
   Mal. M.O.A.I. doth sway my life. Nay but first
let me see, let me see, let me see
   Fab. What dish a poyson has she drest him?
  To. And with what wing the stallion checkes at it?
  Mal. I may command, where I adore: Why shee may
command me: I serue her, she is my Ladie. Why this is
euident to any formall capacitie. There is no obstruction
in this, and the end: What should that Alphabeticall position
portend, if I could make that resemble something
in me? Softly, M.O.A.I
   To. O I, make vp that, he is now at a cold sent
   Fab. Sowter will cry vpon't for all this, though it bee
as ranke as a Fox
   Mal. M. Maluolio, M. why that begins my name
   Fab. Did not I say he would worke it out, the Curre
is excellent at faults
   Mal. M. But then there is no consonancy in the sequell
that suffers vnder probation: A. should follow, but O.
does
   Fa. And O shall end, I hope
   To. I, or Ile cudgell him, and make him cry O
   Mal. And then I. comes behind
   Fa. I, and you had any eye behinde you, you might
see more detraction at your heeles, then Fortunes before
you
   Mal. M,O,A,I. This simulation is not as the former:
and yet to crush this a little, it would bow to mee, for euery
one of these Letters are in my name. Soft, here followes
prose: If this fall into thy hand, reuolue. In my stars
I am aboue thee, but be not affraid of greatnesse: Some
are become great, some atcheeues greatnesse, and some
haue greatnesse thrust vppon em. Thy fates open theyr
hands, let thy blood and spirit embrace them, and to invre
thy selfe to what thou art like to be: cast thy humble
slough, and appeare fresh. Be opposite with a kinsman,
surly with seruants: Let thy tongue tang arguments of
state; put thy selfe into the tricke of singularitie. Shee
thus aduises thee, that sighes for thee. Remember who
commended thy yellow stockings, and wish'd to see thee
euer crosse garter'd: I say remember, goe too, thou art
made if thou desir'st to be so: If not, let me see thee a steward
still, the fellow of seruants, and not woorthie to
touch Fortunes fingers Farewell, Shee that would alter
seruices with thee, the fortunate vnhappy daylight and
champian discouers not more: This is open, I will bee
proud, I will reade politicke Authours, I will baffle Sir
Toby, I will wash off grosse acquaintance, I will be point
deuise, the very man. I do not now foole my selfe, to let
imagination iade mee; for euery reason excites to this,
that my Lady loues me. She did commend my yellow
stockings of late, shee did praise my legge being crosse-garter'd,
and in this she manifests her selfe to my loue, &
with a kinde of iniunction driues mee to these habites of
her liking. I thanke my starres, I am happy: I will bee
strange, stout, in yellow stockings, and crosse Garter'd,
euen with the swiftnesse of putting on. Ioue, and my
starres be praised. Heere is yet a postscript. Thou canst
not choose but know who I am. If thou entertainst my loue, let
it appeare in thy smiling, thy smiles become thee well. Therefore
in my presence still smile, deero my sweete, I prethee. Ioue
I thanke thee, I will smile, I wil do euery thing that thou
wilt haue me.
