  To. Come thy wayes Signior Fabian
   Fab. Nay Ile come: if I loose a scruple of this sport,
let me be boyl'd to death with Melancholly
   To. Wouldst thou not be glad to haue the niggardly
Rascally sheepe-biter, come by some notable shame?
  Fa. I would exult man: you know he brought me out
o' fauour with my Lady, about a Beare-baiting heere
   To. To anger him wee'l haue the Beare againe, and
we will foole him blacke and blew, shall we not sir Andrew?
  An. And we do not, it is pittie of our liues.
Enter Maria.
  To. Heere comes the little villaine: How now my
Mettle of India?
  Mar. Get ye all three into the box tree: Maluolio's
comming downe this walke, he has beene yonder i'the
Sunne practising behauiour to his own shadow this halfe
houre: obserue him for the loue of Mockerie: for I know
this Letter wil make a contemplatiue Ideot of him. Close
in the name of ieasting, lye thou there: for heere comes
the Trowt, that must be caught with tickling.
Exit
Enter Maluolio.
  Mal. 'Tis but Fortune, all is fortune. Maria once
told me she did affect me, and I haue heard her self come
thus neere, that should shee fancie, it should bee one of
my complection. Besides she vses me with a more exalted
respect, then any one else that followes her. What
should I thinke on't?
  To. Heere's an ouer-weening rogue
   Fa. Oh peace: Contemplation makes a rare Turkey
Cocke of him, how he iets vnder his aduanc'd plumes
   And. Slight I could so beate the Rogue
   To. Peace I say
   Mal. To be Count Maluolio
   To. Ah Rogue
   An. Pistoll him, pistoll him
   To. Peace, peace
   Mal. There is example for't: The Lady of the Strachy,
married the yeoman of the wardrobe
   An. Fie on him Iezabel
   Fa. O peace, now he's deepely in: looke how imagination
blowes him
   Mal. Hauing beene three moneths married to her,
sitting in my state
   To. O for a stone-bow to hit him in the eye
   Mal. Calling my Officers about me, in my branch'd
Veluet gowne: hauing come from a day bedde, where I
haue left Oliuia sleeping
   To. Fire and Brimstone
   Fa. O peace, peace
   Mal. And then to haue the humor of state: and after
a demure trauaile of regard: telling them I knowe my
place, as I would they should doe theirs: to aske for my
kinsman Toby
   To. Boltes and shackles
   Fa. Oh peace, peace, peace, now, now
   Mal. Seauen of my people with an obedient start,
make out for him: I frowne the while, and perchance
winde vp my watch, or play with my some rich Iewell:
Toby approaches; curtsies there to me
   To. Shall this fellow liue?
  Fa. Though our silence be drawne from vs with cars,
yet peace
   Mal. I extend my hand to him thus: quenching my
familiar smile with an austere regard of controll
   To. And do's not Toby take you a blow o'the lippes,
then?
  Mal. Saying, Cosine Toby, my Fortunes hauing cast
me on your Neece, giue me this prerogatiue of speech
