I pause to think with admiration, of the noble king who, in his single
person, possessed all the Saxon virtues.  Whom misfortune could not
subdue, whom prosperity could not spoil, whose perseverance nothing could
shake.  Who was hopeful in defeat, and generous in success.  Who loved
justice, freedom, truth, and knowledge.  Who, in his care to instruct his
people, probably did more to preserve the beautiful old Saxon language,
than I can imagine.  Without whom, the English tongue in which I tell
this story might have wanted half its meaning.  As it is said that his
spirit still inspires some of our best English laws, so, let you and I
pray that it may animate our English hearts, at least to this--to
resolve, when we see any of our fellow-creatures left in ignorance, that
we will do our best, while life is in us, to have them taught; and to
tell those rulers whose duty it is to teach them, and who neglect their
duty, that they have profited very little by all the years that have
rolled away since the year nine hundred and one, and that they are far
behind the bright example of KING ALFRED THE GREAT.
CHAPTER IV--ENGLAND UNDER ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY-KINGS
Athelstan, the son of Edward the Elder, succeeded that king.  He reigned
only fifteen years; but he remembered the glory of his grandfather, the
great Alfred, and governed England well.  He reduced the turbulent people
of Wales, and obliged them to pay him a tribute in money, and in cattle,
and to send him their best hawks and hounds.  He was victorious over the
Cornish men, who were not yet quite under the Saxon government.  He
restored such of the old laws as were good, and had fallen into disuse;
made some wise new laws, and took care of the poor and weak.  A strong
alliance, made against him by ANLAF a Danish prince, CONSTANTINE King of
the Scots, and the people of North Wales, he broke and defeated in one
great battle, long famous for the vast numbers slain in it.  After that,
he had a quiet reign; the lords and ladies about him had leisure to
become polite and agreeable; and foreign princes were glad (as they have
sometimes been since) to come to England on visits to the English court.
When Athelstan died, at forty-seven years old, his brother EDMUND, who
was only eighteen, became king.  He was the first of six boy-kings, as
you will presently know.
They called him the Magnificent, because he showed a taste for
improvement and refinement.  But he was beset by the Danes, and had a
short and troubled reign, which came to a troubled end.  One night, when
he was feasting in his hall, and had eaten much and drunk deep, he saw,
among the company, a noted robber named LEOF, who had been banished from
England.  Made very angry by the boldness of this man, the King turned to
his cup-bearer, and said, 'There is a robber sitting at the table yonder,
who, for his crimes, is an outlaw in the land--a hunted wolf, whose life
any man may take, at any time.  Command that robber to depart!'  'I will
not depart!' said Leof.  'No?' cried the King.  'No, by the Lord!' said
Leof.  Upon that the King rose from his seat, and, making passionately at
the robber, and seizing him by his long hair, tried to throw him down.
But the robber had a dagger underneath his cloak, and, in the scuffle,
stabbed the King to death.  That done, he set his back against the wall,
and fought so desperately, that although he was soon cut to pieces by the
King's armed men, and the wall and pavement were splashed with his blood,
yet it was not before he had killed and wounded many of them.  You may
imagine what rough lives the kings of those times led, when one of them
could struggle, half drunk, with a public robber in his own dining-hall,
and be stabbed in presence of the company who ate and drank with him.
