At first, Elfrida possessed great influence over the young King, but, as
he grew older and came of age, her influence declined.  The infamous
woman, not having it in her power to do any more evil, then retired from
court, and, according, to the fashion of the time, built churches and
monasteries, to expiate her guilt.  As if a church, with a steeple
reaching to the very stars, would have been any sign of true repentance
for the blood of the poor boy, whose murdered form was trailed at his
horse's heels!  As if she could have buried her wickedness beneath the
senseless stones of the whole world, piled up one upon another, for the
monks to live in!
About the ninth or tenth year of this reign, Dunstan died.  He was
growing old then, but was as stern and artful as ever.  Two circumstances
that happened in connexion with him, in this reign of Ethelred, made a
great noise.  Once, he was present at a meeting of the Church, when the
question was discussed whether priests should have permission to marry;
and, as he sat with his head hung down, apparently thinking about it, a
voice seemed to come out of a crucifix in the room, and warn the meeting
to be of his opinion.  This was some juggling of Dunstan's, and was
probably his own voice disguised.  But he played off a worse juggle than
that, soon afterwards; for, another meeting being held on the same
subject, and he and his supporters being seated on one side of a great
room, and their opponents on the other, he rose and said, 'To Christ
himself, as judge, do I commit this cause!'  Immediately on these words
being spoken, the floor where the opposite party sat gave way, and some
were killed and many wounded.  You may be pretty sure that it had been
weakened under Dunstan's direction, and that it fell at Dunstan's signal.
_His_ part of the floor did not go down.  No, no.  He was too good a
workman for that.
When he died, the monks settled that he was a Saint, and called him Saint
Dunstan ever afterwards.  They might just as well have settled that he
was a coach-horse, and could just as easily have called him one.
Ethelred the Unready was glad enough, I dare say, to be rid of this holy
saint; but, left to himself, he was a poor weak king, and his reign was a
reign of defeat and shame.  The restless Danes, led by SWEYN, a son of
the King of Denmark who had quarrelled with his father and had been
banished from home, again came into England, and, year after year,
attacked and despoiled large towns.  To coax these sea-kings away, the
weak Ethelred paid them money; but, the more money he paid, the more
money the Danes wanted.  At first, he gave them ten thousand pounds; on
their next invasion, sixteen thousand pounds; on their next invasion,
four and twenty thousand pounds: to pay which large sums, the unfortunate
English people were heavily taxed.  But, as the Danes still came back and
wanted more, he thought it would be a good plan to marry into some
powerful foreign family that would help him with soldiers.  So, in the
year one thousand and two, he courted and married Emma, the sister of
Richard Duke of Normandy; a lady who was called the Flower of Normandy.
