Of the drama in the sense of disinterested presentation she had no idea,
and what is the strength and life-blood of her novels is the weakness of
her dramatic works.  But in the main she was right.  Art without
personality is impossible.  And yet the aim of art is not to reveal
personality, but to please.  This she hardly recognized in her
aesthetics, though she realized it in her work.  On literary style she
has some excellent remarks.  She dislikes the extravagances of the
romantic school and sees the beauty of simplicity.  'Simplicity,' she
writes, 'is the most difficult thing to secure in this world: it is the
last limit of experience and the last effort of genius.'  She hated the
slang and _argot_ of Paris life, and loved the words used by the peasants
in the provinces.  'The provinces,' she remarks, 'preserve the tradition
of the original tongue and create but few new words.  I feel much respect
for the language of the peasantry; in my estimation it is the more
correct.'
She thought Flaubert too much preoccupied with the sense of form, and
makes these excellent observations to him--perhaps her best piece of
literary criticism.  'You consider the form as the aim, whereas it is but
the effect.  Happy expressions are only the outcome of emotion and
emotion itself proceeds from a conviction.  We are only moved by that
which we ardently believe in.'  Literary schools she distrusted.
Individualism was to her the keystone of art as well as of life.  'Do not
belong to any school: do not imitate any model,' is her advice.  Yet she
never encouraged eccentricity.  'Be correct,' she writes to Eugene
Pelletan, 'that is rarer than being eccentric, as the time goes.  It is
much more common to please by bad taste than to receive the cross of
honour.'
On the whole, her literary advice is sound and healthy.  She never
shrieks and she never sneers.  She is the incarnation of good sense.  And
the whole collection of her letters is a perfect treasure-house of
suggestions both on art and on politics.
_Letters of George Sand_.  Translated and edited by Raphael Ledos de
Beaufort.  (Ward and Downey.)
BERANGER IN ENGLAND
(_Pall Mall Gazette_, April 21, 1886.)
A philosophic politician once remarked that the best possible form of
government is an absolute monarchy tempered by street ballads.
Without at all agreeing with this aphorism we still cannot but regret
that the new democracy does not use poetry as a means for the expression
of political opinion.  The Socialists, it is true, have been heard
singing the later poems of Mr. William Morris, but the street ballad is
really dead in England.  The fact is that most modern poetry is so
artificial in its form, so individual in its essence and so literary in
its style, that the people as a body are little moved by it, and when
they have grievances against the capitalist or the aristocrat they prefer
strikes to sonnets and rioting to rondels.
