Possibly, Mr. William Toynbee's pleasant little volume of translations
from Beranger may be the herald of a new school.  Beranger had all the
qualifications for a popular poet.  He wrote to be sung more than to be
read; he preferred the Pont Neuf to Parnassus; he was patriotic as well
as romantic, and humorous as well as humane.  Translations of poetry as a
rule are merely misrepresentations, but the muse of Beranger is so simple
and naive that she can wear our English dress with ease and grace, and
Mr. Toynbee has kept much of the mirth and music of the original.  Here
and there, undoubtedly, the translation could be improved upon; 'rapiers'
for instance is an abominable rhyme to 'forefathers'; 'the hated arms of
Albion' in the same poem is a very feeble rendering of 'le leopard de
l'Anglais,' and such a verse as
    'Mid France's miracles of art,
       Rare trophies won from art's own land,
    I've lived to see with burning heart
       The fog-bred poor triumphant stand,
reproduces very inadequately the charm of the original:
    Dans nos palais, ou, pres de la victoire,
    Brillaient les arts, doux fruits des beaux climats,
    J'ai vu du Nord les peuplades sans gloire,
    De leurs manteaux secouer les frimas.
On the whole, however, Mr. Toynbee's work is good; _Les Champs_, for
example, is very well translated, and so are the two delightful poems
_Rosette_ and _Ma Republique_; and there is a good deal of spirit in _Le
Marquis de Carabas_:
    Whom have we here in conqueror's _role_?
    Our grand old marquis, bless his soul!
    Whose grand old charger (mark his bone!)
    Has borne him back to claim his own.
    Note, if you please, the grand old style
    In which he nears his grand old pile;
    With what an air of grand old state
    He waves that blade immaculate!
       Hats off, hats off, for my lord to pass,
       The grand old Marquis of Carabas!--
though 'that blade immaculate' has hardly got the sting of 'un sabre
innocent'; and in the fourth verse of the same poem, 'Marquise, you'll
have the bed-chamber' does not very clearly convey the sense of the line
'La Marquise a le tabouret.'  Beranger is not nearly well enough known in
England, and though it is always better to read a poet in the original,
still translations have their value as echoes have their music.
_A Selection from the Songs of De Beranger in English Verse_.  By William
Toynbee.  (Kegan Paul.)
THE POETRY OF THE PEOPLE
(_Pall Mall Gazette_, May 13, 1886.)
The Countess Martinengo deserves well of all poets, peasants and
publishers.  Folk-lore is so often treated nowadays merely from the point
of view of the comparative mythologist, that it is really delightful to
come across a book that deals with the subject simply as literature.  For
the Folk-tale is the father of all fiction as the Folk-song is the mother
of all poetry; and in the games, the tales and the ballads of primitive
people it is easy to see the germs of such perfected forms of art as the
drama, the novel and the epic.  It is, of course, true that the highest
expression of life is to be found not in the popular songs, however
poetical, of any nation, but in the great masterpieces of self-conscious
Art; yet it is pleasant sometimes to leave the summit of Parnassus to
look at the wildflowers in the valley, and to turn from the lyre of
Apollo to listen to the reed of Pan.  We can still listen to it.  To this
day, the vineyard dressers of Calabria will mock the passer-by with
satirical verses as they used to do in the old pagan days, and the
peasants of the olive woods of Provence answer each other in amoebaean
strains.  The Sicilian shepherd has not yet thrown his pipe aside, and
the children of modern Greece sing the swallow-song through the villages
in spring-time, though Theognis is more than two thousand years dead.
Nor is this popular poetry merely the rhythmic expression of joy and
sorrow; it is in the highest degree imaginative; and taking its
inspiration directly from nature it abounds in realistic metaphor and in
picturesque and fantastic imagery.  It must, of course, be admitted that
there is a conventionality of nature as there is a conventionality of
art, and that certain forms of utterance are apt to become stereotyped by
too constant use; yet, on the whole, it is impossible not to recognize in
the Folk-songs that the Countess Martinengo has brought together one
strong dominant note of fervent and flawless sincerity.  Indeed, it is
only in the more terrible dramas of the Elizabethan age that we can find
any parallel to the Corsican _voceri_ with their shrill intensity of
passion, their awful frenzies of grief and hate.  And yet, ardent as the
feeling is, the form is nearly always beautiful.  Now and then, in the
poems of the extreme South one meets with a curious crudity of realism,
but, as a rule, the sense of beauty prevails.
