The whole thing seemed a dream, and he reassured himself by turning and
looking after her retreating form.  Del Bishop and the Indians were
already out of sight behind a wall of rock.  Frona was just rounding
the base.  The sun was full upon her, and she stood out radiantly
against the black shadow of the wall beyond.  She waved her alpenstock,
and as he doffed his cap, rounded the brink and disappeared.
CHAPTER V
The position occupied by Jacob Welse was certainly an anomalous one.
He was a giant trader in a country without commerce, a ripened product
of the nineteenth century flourishing in a society as primitive as that
of the Mediterranean vandals.  A captain of industry and a splendid
monopolist, he dominated the most independent aggregate of men ever
drawn together from the ends of the earth.  An economic missionary, a
commercial St. Paul, he preached the doctrines of expediency and force.
Believing in the natural rights of man, a child himself of democracy,
he bent all men to his absolutism.  Government of Jacob Welse, for
Jacob Welse and the people, by Jacob Welse, was his unwritten gospel.
Single-handed he had carved out his dominion till he gripped the domain
of a dozen Roman provinces.  At his ukase the population ebbed and
flowed over a hundred thousand miles of territory, and cities sprang up
or disappeared at his bidding.
Yet he was a common man.  The air of the world first smote his lungs on
the open prairie by the River Platte, the blue sky over head, and
beneath, the green grass of the earth pressing against his tender
nakedness.  On the horses his eyes first opened, still saddled and
gazing in mild wonder on the miracle; for his trapper father had but
turned aside from the trail that the wife might have quiet and the
birth be accomplished.  An hour or so and the two, which were now
three, were in the saddle and overhauling their trapper comrades.  The
party had not been delayed; no time lost.  In the morning his mother
cooked the breakfast over the camp-fire, and capped it with a
fifty-mile ride into the next sun-down.
The trapper father had come of the sturdy Welsh stock which trickled
into early Ohio out of the jostling East, and the mother was a nomadic
daughter of the Irish emigrant settlers of Ontario.  From both sides
came the Wanderlust of the blood, the fever to be moving, to be pushing
on to the edge of things.  In the first year of his life, ere he had
learned the way of his legs, Jacob Welse had wandered a-horse through a
thousand miles of wilderness, and wintered in a hunting-lodge on the
head-waters of the Red River of the North.  His first foot-gear was
moccasins, his first taffy the tallow from a moose.  His first
generalizations were that the world was composed of great wastes and
white vastnesses, and populated with Indians and white hunters like his
father.  A town was a cluster of deer-skin lodges; a trading-post a
seat of civilization; and a factor God Almighty Himself.  Rivers and
lakes existed chiefly for man's use in travelling.  Viewed in this
light, the mountains puzzled him; but he placed them away in his
classification of the Inexplicable and did not worry.  Men died,
sometimes.  But their meat was not good to eat, and their hides
worthless,--perhaps because they did not grow fur.  Pelts were
valuable, and with a few bales a man might purchase the earth.  Animals
were made for men to catch and skin.  He did not know what men were
made for, unless, perhaps, for the factor.
