"Now, Jess, no nonsense, no red eyes to tell tales! Go and do your
errands, and come in as gay as a lark, or Laura will be worried."
And springing up, the girl began to sing instead of sob, as she
stirred about her dismal little room, cleaning her old gloves,
mending her one white dress, and wishing with a sigh of intense
longing that she could afford some flowers to wear, every ornament
having been sold long ago. Then, with a kiss and a smile to her
patient sister, she hurried away to get the necessary slippers and
the much-desired paints, which Laura would not ask for, though her
work waited for want of them.
Having been reared in luxury, poor little Jessie's tastes were all
of the daintiest sort; and her hardest trial, after Laura's feeble
health, was the daily sacrifice of the many comforts and elegances
to which she had been accustomed. Faded gowns, cleaned gloves, and
mended boots cost her many a pang, and the constant temptation of
seeing pretty, useful, and unattainable things was a very hard one.
Laura rarely went out, and so was spared this cross; then she was
three years older, had always been delicate, and lived much in a
happy world of her own. So Jessie bore her trials silently, but
sometimes felt very covetous and resentful to see so much pleasure,
money, and beauty in the world, and yet have so little of it fall to
her lot.
"I feel as if I could pick a pocket to-day and not mind a bit, if it
were a rich person's. It's a shame, when papa was always so
generous, that no one remembers us. If ever I'm rich again, I'll
just hunt up all the poor girls I can find, and give them nice
shoes, if nothing else," she thought, as she went along the crowded
streets, pausing involuntarily at the shop windows to look with
longing eyes at the treasures within.
Resisting the allurements of French slippers with bows and buckles,
she wisely bought a plain, serviceable pair, and trudged away,
finding balm for her wounds in the fact that they were very cheap.
More balm came when she met a young friend, who joined her as she
stood wistfully eying the piles of grapes in a window and longing to
buy some for Laura.
This warm-hearted schoolmate read the wish before Jessie saw her,
and gratified it so adroitly that the girl could accept the pretty
basketful sent to her sister without feeling like a spendthrift or a
beggar. It comforted her very much, and the world began to look
brighter after that little touch of kindness, as it always does when
genuine sympathy makes sunshine in shady places.
At the art store she was told that more of Laura's autumn-flowers
were in demand; and her face was so full of innocent delight and
gratitude it quite touched the old man who sold her the paints, and
gave her more than her money's worth, remembering his own hard times
and pitying the pretty young girl whose father he had known.
