‘That is capital,’ said the Infanta, after a pause; ‘but now you must
dance for me.’
‘Yes,’ cried all the children, ‘you must get up and dance, for you are as
clever as the Barbary apes, and much more ridiculous.’  But the little
Dwarf made no answer.
And the Infanta stamped her foot, and called out to her uncle, who was
walking on the terrace with the Chamberlain, reading some despatches that
had just arrived from Mexico, where the Holy Office had recently been
established.  ‘My funny little dwarf is sulking,’ she cried, ‘you must
wake him up, and tell him to dance for me.’
They smiled at each other, and sauntered in, and Don Pedro stooped down,
and slapped the Dwarf on the cheek with his embroidered glove.  ‘You must
dance,’ he said, ‘_petit monsire_.  You must dance.  The Infanta of Spain
and the Indies wishes to be amused.’
But the little Dwarf never moved.
‘A whipping master should be sent for,’ said Don Pedro wearily, and he
went back to the terrace.  But the Chamberlain looked grave, and he knelt
beside the little dwarf, and put his hand upon his heart.  And after a
few moments he shrugged his shoulders, and rose up, and having made a low
bow to the Infanta, he said—
‘_Mi bella Princesa_, your funny little dwarf will never dance again.  It
is a pity, for he is so ugly that he might have made the King smile.’
‘But why will he not dance again?’ asked the Infanta, laughing.
‘Because his heart is broken,’ answered the Chamberlain.
And the Infanta frowned, and her dainty rose-leaf lips curled in pretty
disdain.  ‘For the future let those who come to play with me have no
hearts,’ she cried, and she ran out into the garden.
THE FISHERMAN AND HIS SOUL
                                TO H.S.H.
                             ALICE, PRINCESS
                                OF MONACO
EVERY evening the young Fisherman went out upon the sea, and threw his
nets into the water.
When the wind blew from the land he caught nothing, or but little at
best, for it was a bitter and black-winged wind, and rough waves rose up
to meet it.  But when the wind blew to the shore, the fish came in from
the deep, and swam into the meshes of his nets, and he took them to the
market-place and sold them.
Every evening he went out upon the sea, and one evening the net was so
heavy that hardly could he draw it into the boat.  And he laughed, and
said to himself, ‘Surely I have caught all the fish that swim, or snared
some dull monster that will be a marvel to men, or some thing of horror
that the great Queen will desire,’ and putting forth all his strength, he
tugged at the coarse ropes till, like lines of blue enamel round a vase
of bronze, the long veins rose up on his arms.  He tugged at the thin
ropes, and nearer and nearer came the circle of flat corks, and the net
rose at last to the top of the water.
