Burial of the Dead.
'That the burial of the dead by this visitation be at most convenient
hours, always either before sun-rising or after sun-setting, with the
privity of the churchwardens or constable, and not otherwise; and that
no neighbours nor friends be suffered to accompany the corpse to church,
or to enter the house visited, upon pain of having his house shut up or
be imprisoned.
'And that no corpse dying of infection shall be buried, or remain in any
church in time of common prayer, sermon, or lecture. And that no
children be suffered at time of burial of any corpse in any church,
churchyard, or burying-place to come near the corpse, coffin, or grave.
And that all the graves shall be at least six feet deep.
'And further, all public assemblies at other burials are to be foreborne
during the continuance of this visitation.
No infected Stuff to be uttered.
'That no clothes, stuff, bedding, or garments be suffered to be carried
or conveyed out of any infected houses, and that the criers and carriers
abroad of bedding or old apparel to be sold or pawned be utterly
prohibited and restrained, and no brokers of bedding or old apparel be
permitted to make any outward show, or hang forth on their stalls, shop-
boards, or windows, towards any street, lane, common way, or passage,
any old bedding or apparel to be sold, upon pain of imprisonment. And if
any broker or other person shall buy any bedding, apparel, or other
stuff out of any infected house within two months after the infection
hath been there, his house shall be shut up as infected, and so shall
continue shut up twenty days at the least.
No Person to be conveyed out of any infected House.
'If any person visited do fortune, by negligent looking unto, or by any
other means, to come or be conveyed from a place infected to any other
place, the parish from whence such party hath come or been conveyed,
upon notice thereof given, shall at their charge cause the said party so
visited and escaped to be carried and brought back again by night, and
the parties in this case offending to be punished at the direction of
the alderman of the ward, and the house of the receiver of such visited
person to be shut up for twenty days.
Every visited House to be marked.
'That every house visited be marked with a red cross of a foot long in
the middle of the door, evident to be seen, and with these usual printed
words, that is to say, "Lord, have mercy upon us," to be set close over
the same cross, there to continue until lawful opening of the same
house.
Every visited House to be watched.
'That the constables see every house shut up, and to be attended with
watchmen, which may keep them in, and minister necessaries unto them at
their own charges, if they be able, or at the common charge, if they are
unable; the shutting up to be for the space of four weeks after all be
whole.
