But to return to the people, whose confusions fitted them to be imposed
upon by all sorts of pretenders and by every mountebank. There is no
doubt but these quacking sort of fellows raised great gains out of the
miserable people, for we daily found the crowds that ran after them were
infinitely greater, and their doors were more thronged than those of Dr
Brooks, Dr Upton, Dr Hodges, Dr Berwick, or any, though the most famous
men of the time. And I was told that some of them got five pounds a day
by their physic.
But there was still another madness beyond all this, which may serve to
give an idea of the distracted humour of the poor people at that time:
and this was their following a worse sort of deceivers than any of
these; for these petty thieves only deluded them to pick their pockets
and get their money, in which their wickedness, whatever it was, lay
chiefly on the side of the deceivers, not upon the deceived. But in this
part I am going to mention, it lay chiefly in the people deceived, or
equally in both; and this was in wearing charms, philtres, exorcisms,
amulets, and I know not what preparations, to fortify the body with them
against the plague; as if the plague was not the hand of God, but a kind
of possession of an evil spirit, and that it was to be kept off with
crossings, signs of the zodiac, papers tied up with so many knots, and
certain words or figures written on them, as particularly the word
Abracadabra, formed in triangle or pyramid, thus:--
     ABRACADABRA
     ABRACADABR     Others had the Jesuits'
     ABRACADAB         mark in a cross:
     ABRACADA             I H
     ABRACAD               S.
     ABRACA
     ABRAC          Others nothing but this
     ABRA               mark, thus:
     ABR
     AB                   * *
     A                    {*}
I might spend a great deal of time in my exclamations against the
follies, and indeed the wickedness, of those things, in a time of such
danger, in a matter of such consequences as this, of a national
infection. But my memorandums of these things relate rather to take
notice only of the fact, and mention only that it was so. How the poor
people found the insufficiency of those things, and how many of them
were afterwards carried away in the dead-carts and thrown into the
common graves of every parish with these hellish charms and trumpery
hanging about their necks, remains to be spoken of as we go along.
All this was the effect of the hurry the people were in, after the first
notion of the plaque being at hand was among them, and which may be said
to be from about Michaelmas 1664, but more particularly after the two
men died in St Giles's in the beginning of December; and again, after
another alarm in February. For when the plague evidently spread itself,
they soon began to see the folly of trusting to those unperforming
creatures who had gulled them of their money; and then their fears
worked another way, namely, to amazement and stupidity, not knowing what
course to take or what to do either to help or relieve themselves. But
they ran about from one neighbour's house to another, and even in the
streets from one door to another, with repeated cries of, 'Lord, have
mercy upon us! What shall we do?'
