Nan never felt alone now in this charmed wood; for when she came into
its precincts, once so full of solitude, all things seemed to wear one
shape, familiar eyes looked at her from the violets in the grass,
familiar words sounded in the whisper of the leaves, grew conscious
that an unseen influence filled the air with new delights, and touched
earth and sky with a beauty never seen before.  Slowly these Mayflowers
budded in her maiden heart, rosily they bloomed and silently they
waited till some lover of such lowly herbs should catch their fresh
aroma, should brush away the fallen leaves, and lift them to the sun.
Though the eldest of the three, she had long been overtopped by the
more aspiring maids.  But though she meekly yielded the reins of
government, whenever they chose to drive, they were soon restored to
her again; for Di fell into literature, and Laura into love.  Thus
engrossed, these two forgot many duties which even bluestockings and
inamoratos are expected to perform, and slowly all the homely humdrum
cares that housewives know became Nan's daily life, and she accepted it
without a thought of discontent.  Noiseless and cheerful as the
sunshine, she went to and fro, doing the tasks that mothers do, but
without a mother's sweet reward, holding fast the numberless slight
threads that bind a household tenderly together, and making each day a
beautiful success.
Di, being tired of running, riding, climbing, and boating, decided at
last to let her body rest and put her equally active mind through what
classical collegians term "a course of sprouts."  Having undertaken to
read and know everything, she devoted herself to the task with great
energy, going from Sue to Swedenborg with perfect impartiality, and
having different authors as children have sundry distempers, being
fractious while they lasted, but all the better for them when once
over.  Carlyle appeared like scarlet-fever, and raged violently for a
time; for, being anything but a "passive bucket," Di became prophetic
with Mahomet, belligerent with Cromwell, and made the French Revolution
a veritable Reign of Terror to her family.  Goethe and Schiller
alternated like fever and ague; Mephistopheles became her hero, Joan of
Arc her model, and she turned her black eyes red over Egmont and
Wallenstein. A mild attack of Emerson followed, during which she was
lost in a fog, and her sisters rejoiced inwardly when she emerged
informing them that
  "The Sphinx was drowsy,
  Her wings were furled."
Poor Di was floundering slowly to her proper place; but she splashed up
a good deal of foam by getting out of her depth, and rather exhausted
herself by trying to drink the ocean dry.
Laura, after the "midsummer night's dream" that often comes to girls of
seventeen, woke up to find that youth and love were no match for age
and common sense.  Philip had been flying about the world like a
thistle-down for five-and-twenty years, generous-hearted, frank, and
kind, but with never an idea of the serious side of life in his
handsome head.  Great, therefore, were the wrath and dismay of the
enamored thistle-down, when the father of his love mildly objected to
seeing her begin the world in a balloon with a very tender but very
inexperienced aeronaut for a guide.
