"Ah, my dear, better bear one year of impatience now than a lifetime of
regret hereafter. Nan is happy; why disturb her by a word which will
bring the tender cares and troubles that come soon enough to such
conscientious creatures as herself? If she loves you, time will prove
it; therefore, let the new affection spring and ripen as your early
friendship has done, and it will be all the stronger for a summer's
growth.  Philip was rash, and has to bear his trial now, and Laura
shares it with him. Be more generous, John; make your trial, bear your
doubts alone, and give Nan the happiness without the pain.  Promise me
this, dear,--promise me to hope and wait."
The young man's eye kindled, and in his heart there rose a better
chivalry, a truer valor, than any Di's knights had ever known.
"I'll try, mother," was all he said; but she was satisfied, for John
seldom tried in vain.
"Oh, girls, how splendid you are!  It does my heart good to see my
handsome sisters in their best array," cried Nan, one mild October
night, as she put the last touches to certain airy raiment fashioned by
her own skilful hands, and then fell back to survey the grand effect.
"Di and Laura were preparing to assist at an event of the season," and
Nan, with her own locks fallen on her shoulders, for want of sundry
combs promoted to her sisters' heads and her dress in unwonted
disorder, for lack of the many pins extracted in exciting crises of the
toilet, hovered like an affectionate bee about two very full-blown
flowers.
"Laura looks like a cool Undine, with the ivy-wreaths in her shining
hair; and Di has illuminated herself to such an extent with those
scarlet leaves that I don't know what great creature she resembles
most," said Nan, beaming with sisterly admiration.
"Like Juno, Zenobia, and Cleopatra simmered into one, with a touch of
Xantippe by way of spice. But, to my eye, the finest woman of the three
is the dishevelled young person embracing the bed-post: for she stays
at home herself, and gives her time and taste to making homely people
fine,--which is a waste of good material, and an imposition on the
public."
As Di spoke, both the fashion-plates looked affectionately at the
gray-gowned figure; but, being works of art, they were obliged to nip
their feelings in the bud, and reserve their caresses till they
returned to common life.
"Put on your bonnet, and we'll leave you at Mrs. Lord's on our way.  It
will do you good, Nan; and perhaps there may be news from John," added
Di, as she bore down upon the door like a man-of-war under full sail.
"Or from Philip," sighed Laura, with a wistful look.
Whereupon Nan persuaded herself that her strong inclination to sit down
was owing to want of exercise, and the heaviness of her eyelids a freak
of imagination; so, speedily smoothing her ruffled plumage, she ran
down to tell her father of the new arrangement.
