He told them he supposed the governor would not refuse them when he knew
who they were, but that it was but good manners to ask leave: the
Englishman told him, that he had not yet filled any water or bought any
provisions, and that he had a letter to the governor from the captain,
which he supposed was to pay the usual civilities to him, and to give
him the civility of taking leave, as was expected.
The Dutchman answered, that was hael weel; that he might go and carry
it, if he pleased, then, and, if the governor gave them leave, all was
right and as it should be; but that the men could not be admitted to
come on shore till his return.
Upon this, away goes the second mate of our ship and three of the men
with him, whereof the gunner was one; for he had asked the Dutchman how
many he might carry with him, and he told him three or four: and those
he took you may be sure, were of the particular men whom he had a
confidence in, because of their conversing together by the way.
When they came to the governor, the mate sent in a message first, viz.,
that he was come from on board the English ship in the road, and that
he had a letter from the captain to his excellence.
The governor, who had notice given him of the business, sends out word,
that the gentlemen should send in the letter, and the governor would
give them an answer: in the mean time, there appeared a guard of
soldiers at the governor's house, and the four Englishmen were let into
the outer room, where the door was shut after them, and the soldiers
stood without the door, and more soldiers in another room between them
and the parlour which the governor sat in.
After some time, the mate was called in, and the governor told him that
he had read the letter which he brought, and asked him if he knew the
contents of it; he answered, No: the governor replied, he supposed not,
for, if he had, he would scarce have brought it; at the same time told
him, he was obliged to make him and all his men prisoners, at the
request of their own captain, for a conspiracy to raise a mutiny and run
away with the ship. Upon which, two great fat Dutchmen came up to him,
and bid him deliver his sword, which he did with some reluctance; for he
was a stout strong fellow; but he saw it all to no purpose to dispute or
resist.
At the same time, the three men without were made prisoners also by the
soldiers. When the governor had thus secured these men, he called them
in, and inquired the particulars of the case, and expostulated with them
very pathetically upon such a horrid, villanous design, and inquired of
them what the occasion could be; and, hearing all they had to say in
their defence, told them he could do nothing more in it till their
captain came on shore, which would be in a day or two, and that, in the
mean time, they must be content to remain in custody, which they did,
separated from one another. They were very civilly treated, but strictly
kept from speaking or sending any messages to one another, or to the
boats.
