I took no notice of this at first, knowing that, in the process of
things, I should have opportunity enough to let them know I had power to
oblige them many ways; as also, that I had authority sufficient to
command the whole ship, and that the direction of the voyage was
principally in me, though I being willing to do everything in a friendly
way, had too easily, and, I may say, too weakly, put that to the vote,
which I had a right to have commanded their compliance with. The ill
consequences of which appeared not for some time, but broke out upon the
occasion of our new measures, as will presently appear.
As soon as we had determined our voyage among ourselves in the great
cabin, the supercargo and Captain Merlotte went out upon the
quarter-deck, and began to talk of it among the officers, midshipmen,
&c.; and, to give them their due, they talked of it very honestly; not
with any complaint of being over-ruled, or over-persuaded, but as a
measure that was fully agreed to among us in the great cabin.
The boatswain, a blunt, surly, bold fellow, as soon as he heard of it,
Very well, says he, so we are all come back into Captain Positive's
blind proposal (for so he called me); why this is the same that
everybody rejected at the Canaries; and now, because we are driven
hither by contrary winds, those winds must be a reason why we must
undertake a preposterous, ridiculous voyage, that never any sailor would
have proposed, and that man never went before. What, does the captain
think that we cannot find our way to the coast of America again, and
because we have met with cross winds, we must never meet with fair ones?
I warrant him, let us but go up the height of St. Helena, we will soon
reach the Rio de la Plata and Port St. Julian again, and get into the
South Seas too, as others have done before us.
The gunner took it from the boatswain, and he talks with one of the
midshipmen in the same dialect. For my part, says he, I shipped myself
for the South Seas when I first came aboard the ship, and in hopes of
good booty; and if we go thither, I know nothing can hinder us, wind and
weather permitting: but this is such a voyage as no man ever attempted
before; and whatever the captain proposes, can have nothing in it for
the men, but horrid fatigue, violent heats, sickness, and starving.
One of the mates takes it from him, and he says as openly, I wonder what
a plague the rest of the gentlemen mean; they were all against the
captain when he started this whimsical voyage before, and now they come
all into it of a sudden, without any consideration; and so the project
of one man must ruin the most promising voyage ever yet undertaken, and
be the death of above two hundred as stout fellows as ever were together
in one ship in this part of the world.
