When this was accomplished, the governor sent six files of musketeers
down to the watering-place, with an order to secure all the Englishmen
in the two boats, which was done. They seemed inclined to make some
resistance at first, being all very well armed; but the seamen of the
three Dutch long-boats, joining themselves to the soldiers, and notice
being given the English seamen, that if they fired one gun, they should
have no quarter; and especially their two principal men, the chief mate
and the gunner, being absent, they submitted, and were all made
prisoners also.
When this was done, of which the Dutch captain had notice by a signal
from the shore, he came off in his shallop, with about sixteen seamen,
and five or six gentlemen and officers, to pay his visit to me. I
received him with all the appearance of ceremony imaginable, ordered an
elegant dinner to be prepared for him, and caused his men to be all
treated upon the deck, and made mighty preparations for the feast.
But in the middle of all this, Captain Merlotte, with all his Frenchmen,
being thirty-two, appeared in arms on the quarter-deck; the Dutch
captain's attendants stood to their arms on the main-deck, and I, with
the supercargo, the doctor, and the other captain, leaving the Dutch
captain and some men in the great cabin as a reserve, came to the
steerage door, cleared the steerage behind me, and stood there with a
cutlass in my hand, but said nothing; neither was there a word spoke
anywhere all the while.
In this juncture, the chief mate, the faithful midshipmen, the
carpenter, and the gunner's mate, with about twenty men whom they could
trust, went fore and aft between decks, and secured all the particular
men that we had the least suspicion of, being no less than thirty-five
more. These they secured, bringing them up into the steerage, where
their hands were tied behind them, and they were commanded not to speak
a word to one another upon pain of present death.
When this was done, the chief mate came to me to the steerage door, and
passing by, went forward with his men, entered the cook-room, and posted
himself at the cook-room door. There might be still about eighty men
upon the forecastle and midships upon the open decks; and there they
stood staring, and surprised at what was doing, but not being able to
guess in the least what was meant, what was the cause of it, or what was
intended to be done farther.
When I found all things ready, I moved forward a step or two, and
beckoning to the mate to command silence, I told the men that I was not
disposed to hurt any man, nor had I done what I now did, but by
necessity, and that I expected they should all submit; that, if any one
of them made the least resistance, he was a dead man; but that, if they
would be easy and quiet, I should give a very good account to them all,
of every part of the voyage, or scheme of a voyage, which I had laid,
and which had been so ill represented to them.
