Pankburn took charge of the trading. For the penny in One-Eye's nose he
gave ten sticks of tobacco. Since each stick cost David Grief a cent,
the bargain was manifestly unfair. But for the half-crowns Pankburn gave
only one stick each. The string of sovereigns he refused to consider.
The more he refused, the more One-Eye insisted on a trade. At last, with
an appearance of irritation and anger, and as a palpable concession,
Pankburn gave two sticks for the string, which was composed of ten
sovereigns.
"I take my hat off to you," Grief said to Pankburn that night at dinner.
"The situation is patent. You've reversed the scale of value. They'll
figure the pennies as priceless possessions and the sovereigns as
beneath price. Result: they'll hang on to the pennies and force us to
trade for sovereigns. Pankburn, I drink your health! Boy!--another cup
of tea for Mr. Pankburn."
VII
Followed a golden week. From dawn till dark a row of canoes rested
on their paddles two hundred feet away. This was the deadline. Rapa
sailors, armed with rifles, maintained it. But one canoe at a time was
permitted alongside, and but one black at a time was permitted to come
over the rail. Here, under the awning, relieving one another in hourly
shifts, the four white men carried on the trade. The rate of exchange
was that established by Pankburn with One-Eye. Five sovereigns fetched
a stick of tobacco; a hundred sovereigns, twenty sticks. Thus, a
crafty-eyed cannibal would deposit on the table a thousand dollars in
gold, and go back over the rail, hugely-satisfied, with forty cents'
worth of tobacco in his hand.
"Hope we've got enough tobacco to hold out," Carlsen muttered dubiously,
as another case was sawed in half.
Albright laughed.
"We've got fifty cases below," he said, "and as I figure it, three cases
buy a hundred thousand dollars. There was only a million dollars buried,
so thirty cases ought to get it. Though, of course, we've got to allow
a margin for the silver and the pennies. That Ecuadoran bunch must have
salted down all the coin in sight."
Very few pennies and shillings appeared, though Pankburn continually and
anxiously inquired for them. Pennies were the one thing he seemed to
desire, and he made his eyes flash covetously whenever one was produced.
True to his theory, the savages concluded that the gold, being of slight
value, must be disposed of first. A penny, worth fifty times as much as
a sovereign, was something to retain and treasure. Doubtless, in their
jungle-lairs, the wise old gray-beards put their heads together and
agreed to raise the price on pennies when the worthless gold was all
worked off. Who could tell? Mayhap the strange white men could be made
to give even twenty sticks for a priceless copper.
By the end of the week the trade went slack. There was only the
slightest dribble of gold. An occasional penny was reluctantly disposed
of for ten sticks, while several thousand dollars in silver came in.
