His legs wobbled under him, and with a suffocating sensation he began
sinking to the floor.  He was aware of a feeble gratification as he saw
solicitude leap into her eyes; then blackness smote him, and at the
moment of smiting him his thought was that at last, and for the first
time in his life, he had fainted.
The ringing of the big bell aroused him.  He opened his eyes and found
that he was on the couch indoors.  A glance at the clock told him that it
was six, and from the direction the sun's rays streamed into the room he
knew that it was morning.  At first he puzzled over something untoward he
was sure had happened.  Then on the wall he saw a Stetson hat hanging,
and beneath it a full cartridge-belt and a long-barrelled 38 Colt's
revolver.  The slender girth of the belt told its feminine story, and he
remembered the whale-boat of the day before and the gray eyes that
flashed beneath the level brows.  She it must have been who had just rung
the bell.  The cares of the plantation rushed upon him, and he sat up in
bed, clutching at the wall for support as the mosquito screen lurched
dizzily around him.  He was still sitting there, holding on, with eyes
closed, striving to master his giddiness, when he heard her voice.
"You'll lie right down again, sir," she said.
It was sharply imperative, a voice used to command.  At the same time one
hand pressed him back toward the pillow while the other caught him from
behind and eased him down.
"You've been unconscious for twenty-four hours now," she went on, "and I
have taken charge.  When I say the word you'll get up, and not until
then.  Now, what medicine do you take?--quinine?  Here are ten grains.
That's right.  You'll make a good patient."
"My dear madame," he began.
"You musn't speak," she interrupted, "that is, in protest.  Otherwise,
you can talk."
"But the plantation--"
"A dead man is of no use on a plantation.  Don't you want to know about
_me_?  My vanity is hurt.  Here am I, just through my first shipwreck;
and here are you, not the least bit curious, talking about your miserable
plantation.  Can't you see that I am just bursting to tell somebody,
anybody, about my shipwreck?"
He smiled; it was the first time in weeks.  And he smiled, not so much at
what she said, as at the way she said it--the whimsical expression of her
face, the laughter in her eyes, and the several tiny lines of humour that
drew in at the corners.  He was curiously wondering as to what her age
was, as he said aloud:
"Yes, tell me, please."
"That I will not--not now," she retorted, with a toss of the head.  "I'll
find somebody to tell my story to who does not have to be asked.  Also, I
want information.  I managed to find out what time to ring the bell to
turn the hands to, and that is about all.  I don't understand the
ridiculous speech of your people.  What time do they knock off?"
