Hilda sat down on the couch and said seriously: "I've a neat little sum
in the bank, too, now, and I own a mite of a hut in Galway. It's not
worth much, but I love it. I've managed to save something every year,
and that with helping my three sisters now and then, and tiding poor
Cousin Mike over bad seasons. He's that gifted, you know, but he will
drink and loses more good engagements than other fellows ever get. And
I've traveled a bit, too."
Marie opened the door and smilingly announced that dinner was served.
"My dining-room," Hilda explained, as she led the way, "is the tiniest
place you have ever seen."
It was a tiny room, hung all round with French prints, above which ran a
shelf full of china. Hilda saw Alexander look up at it.
"It's not particularly rare," she said, "but some of it was my
mother's. Heaven knows how she managed to keep it whole, through all our
wanderings, or in what baskets and bundles and theatre trunks it hasn't
been stowed away. We always had our tea out of those blue cups when I
was a little girl, sometimes in the queerest lodgings, and sometimes on
a trunk at the theatre--queer theatres, for that matter."
It was a wonderful little dinner. There was watercress soup, and sole,
and a delightful omelette stuffed with mushrooms and truffles, and two
small rare ducklings, and artichokes, and a dry yellow Rhone wine of
which Bartley had always been very fond. He drank it appreciatively and
remarked that there was still no other he liked so well.
"I have some champagne for you, too. I don't drink it myself, but I like
to see it behave when it's poured. There is nothing else that looks so
jolly."
"Thank you. But I don't like it so well as this." Bartley held the
yellow wine against the light and squinted into it as he turned the
glass slowly about. "You have traveled, you say. Have you been in Paris
much these late years?"
Hilda lowered one of the candle-shades carefully. "Oh, yes, I go over to
Paris often. There are few changes in the old Quarter. Dear old Madame
Anger is dead--but perhaps you don't remember her?"
"Don't I, though! I'm so sorry to hear it. How did her son turn out? I
remember how she saved and scraped for him, and how he always lay abed
till ten o'clock. He was the laziest fellow at the Beaux Arts; and
that's saying a good deal."
"Well, he is still clever and lazy. They say he is a good architect when
he will work. He's a big, handsome creature, and he hates Americans as
much as ever. But Angel--do you remember Angel?"
"Perfectly. Did she ever get back to Brittany and her bains de mer?"
"Ah, no. Poor Angel! She got tired of cooking and scouring the coppers
in Madame Anger's little kitchen, so she ran away with a soldier, and
then with another soldier. Too bad! She still lives about the Quarter,
and, though there is always a soldat, she has become a blanchisseuse de
fin. She did my blouses beautifully the last time I was there, and was
so delighted to see me again. I gave her all my old clothes, even my old
hats, though she always wears her Breton headdress. Her hair is still
like flax, and her blue eyes are just like a baby's, and she has the
same three freckles on her little nose, and talks about going back to
her bains de mer."
