"Bargain?" observed Tom, with an eye to business.
"If you won't go and make a fuss, telling what you'd no right to hear
it was so mean to hide and listen; I should think you'd be ashamed
of it! I'll help you tease for your velocipede, and won't say a word
against it, when mamma and granny beg papa not to let you have it."
"Will you?" and Tom paused to consider the offer in all its bearings.
"Yes, and Polly will help; won't you?"
"I'd rather not have anything to do with it; but I'll be quiet, and
not do any harm."
"Why won't you?" asked Tom, curiously.
"Because it seems like deceiving."
"Well, papa need n't be so fussy," said Fan, petulantly.
"After hearing about that Carrie, and the rest, I don't wonder he is
fussy. Why don't you tell right out, and not do it any more, if he don't
want you to?" said Polly, persuasively.
"Do you go and tell your father and mother everything right out?"
"Yes, I do; and it saves ever so much trouble."
"Ain't you afraid of them?"
"Of course I'm not. It's hard to tell sometimes; but it's so
comfortable when it's over."
"Let's!" was Tom's brief advice.
"Mercy me! what a fuss about nothing!" said Fanny, ready to cry with
vexation.
"T is n't nothing. You know you are forbidden to go gallivanting round
with those chaps, and that's the reason you're in a pucker now. I
won't make any bargain, and I will tell," returned Tom, seized with a
sudden fit of moral firmness.
"Will you if I promise never, never to do so any more?" asked Fanny,
meekly; for when Thomas took matters into his own hands, his sister
usually submitted in spite of herself.
"I'll think about it; and if you behave, maybe I won't do it at all. I
can watch you better than papa can; so, if you try it again, it's
all up with you, miss," said Tom, finding it impossible to resist the
pleasure of tyrannizing a little when he got the chance.
"She won't; don't plague her any more, and she will be good to you when
you get into scrapes," answered Polly, with her arm round Fan.
"I never do; and if I did, I should n't ask a girl to help me out."
"Why not? I'd ask you in a minute, if I was in trouble," said Polly, in
her confiding way.
"Would you? Well, I'd put you through, as sure as my name's Tom Shaw.
Now, then, don't slip, Polly," and Mr. Thomas helped them out with
unusual politeness, for that friendly little speech gratified him. He
felt that one person appreciated him; and it had a good effect upon
manners and temper made rough and belligerent by constant snubbing and
opposition.
After tea that evening, Fanny proposed that Polly should show her how
to make molasses candy, as it was cook's holiday, and the coast would
be clear. Hoping to propitiate her tormentor, Fan invited Tom to join in
the revel, and Polly begged that Maud might sit up and see the fun;
so all four descended to the big kitchen, armed with aprons, hammers,
spoons, and pans, and Polly assumed command of the forces. Tom was set
to cracking nuts, and Maud to picking out the meats, for the candy was
to be "tip-top." Fan waited on Polly cook, who hovered over the kettle
of boiling molasses till her face was the color of a peony. "Now, put
in the nuts," she said at last; and Tom emptied his plate into the
foamy syrup, while the others watched with deep interest the mysterious
concoction of this well-beloved sweetmeat. "I pour it into the buttered
pan, you see, and it cools, and then we can eat it," explained Polly,
suiting the action to the word.
