"I don't see much fun in these cold runs you are so fond of taking,"
said Fanny, with a yawn and a shiver.
"Perhaps you would if you tried it;" and Polly laughed as she glanced at
Tom.
"Did you go alone, dear?" asked grandma, patting the rosy cheek beside
her.
"Yes'm; but I met Tom, and we came home together." Polly's eyes
twinkled when she said that, and Tom choked in his soup.
"Thomas, leave the table!" commanded Mr. Shaw, as his incorrigible son
gurgled and gasped behind his napkin.
"Please don't send him away, sir. I made him laugh," said Polly,
penitently.
"What's the joke?" asked Fanny, waking up at last.
"I should n't think you'd make him laugh, when he's always making you
cwy," observed Maud, who had just come in.
"What have you been doing now, sir?" demanded Mr. Shaw, as Tom emerged,
red and solemn, from his brief obscurity.
"Nothing but coast," he said, gruffly, for papa was always lecturing
him, and letting the girls do just as they liked.
"So's Polly; I saw her. Me and Blanche were coming home just now, and
we saw her and Tom widing down the hill on his sled, and then he dwagged
her ever so far!" cried Maud, with her mouth full.
"You did n't?" and Fanny dropped her fork with a scandalized face.
"Yes, I did, and liked it ever so much," answered Polly, looking anxious
but resolute.
"Did any one see you?" cried Fanny.
"Only some little girls, and Tom."
"It was horridly improper; and Tom ought to have told you so, if you did
n't know any better. I should be mortified to death if any of my friends
saw you," added Fan, much disturbed.
"Now, don't you scold. It's no harm, and Polly shall coast if she wants
to; may n't she, grandma?" cried Tom, gallantly coming to the rescue,
and securing a powerful ally.
"My mother lets me; and if I don't go among the boys, I can't see what
harm there is in it," said Polly, before Madam could speak.
"People do many things in the country that are not proper here," began
Mrs. Shaw, in her reproving tone.
"Let the child do it if she likes, and take Maud with her. I should be
glad to have one hearty girl in my house," interrupted Mr. Shaw, and
that was the end of it.
"Thank you, sir," said Polly, gratefully, and nodded at Tom, who
telegraphed back "All right!" and fell upon his dinner with the appetite
of a young wolf.
"Oh, you sly-boots! you're getting up a flirtation with Tom, are you?"
whispered Fanny to her friend, as if much amused.
"What!" and Polly looked so surprised and indignant, that Fanny was
ashamed of herself, and changed the subject by telling her mother she
needed some new gloves.
Polly was very quiet after that, and the minute dinner was over, she
left the room to go and have a quiet "think" about the whole matter.
Before she got half-way up stairs, she saw Tom coming after, and
immediately sat down to guard her feet. He laughed, and said, as he
perched himself on the post of the banisters, "I won't grab you, honor
bright. I just wanted to say, if you'll come out to-morrow some time,
we'll have a good coast."
