IV
A Small Interruption.
When Melicent came to visit her brother, Mrs. Lafirme persuaded him to
abandon his uncomfortable quarters at the mill and take up his
residence in the cottage, which stood just beyond the lawn of the big
house. This cottage had been furnished _de pied en cap_ many years
before, in readiness against an excess of visitors, which in days gone
by was not of infrequent occurrence at Place-du-Bois. It was
Melicent's delighted intention to keep house here. And she foresaw no
obstacle in the way of procuring the needed domestic aid in a place
which was clearly swarming with idle women and children.
"Got a cook yet, Mel?" was Hosmer's daily enquiry on returning home,
to which Melicent was as often forced to admit that she had no cook,
but was not without abundant hope of procuring one.
Betsy's Aunt Cynthy had promised with a sincerity which admitted not
of doubt, that "de Lord willin' " she would "be on han' Monday, time
to make de mornin' coffee." Which assurance had afforded Melicent a
Sunday free of disturbing doubts concerning the future of her
undertaking. But who may know what the morrow will bring forth? Cynthy
had been "tuck sick in de night." So ran the statement of the wee
pickaninny who appeared at Melicent's gate many hours later than
morning coffee time: delivering his message in a high voice of
complaint, and disappearing like a vision without further word.
Uncle Hiram, then called to the breach, had staked his patriarchal
honor on the appearance of his niece Suze on Tuesday. Melicent and
Therese meeting Suze some days later in a field path, asked the cause
of her bad faith. The girl showed them all the white teeth which
nature had lavished on her, saying with the best natured laugh in the
world: "I don' know how come I didn' git dere Chewsday like I
promise."
If the ladies were not disposed to consider that an all-sufficient
reason, so much the worse, for Suze had no other to offer.
From Mose's wife, Minervy, better things might have been expected. But
after a solemn engagement to take charge of Melicent's kitchen on
Wednesday, the dusky matron suddenly awoke to the need of "holpin'
Mose hoe out dat co'n in the stiff lan."
Therese, seeing that the girl was really eager to play in the brief
role of housekeeper had used her powers, persuasive and authoritative,
to procure servants for her, but without avail. She herself was not
without an abundance of them, from the white-haired Hiram, whose
position on the place had long been a sinecure, down to the little
brown legged tot Mandy, much given to falling asleep in the sun, when
not chasing venturesome poultry off forbidden ground, or stirring
gentle breezes with an enormous palm leaf fan about her mistress
during that lady's after dinner nap.
When pressed to give a reason for this apparent disinclination of the
negroes to work for the Hosmers, Nathan, who was at the moment being
interviewed on the front veranda by Therese and Melicent, spoke out.
