"Don't you think," ventured Therese, "that we make too much of our
individual trials. We are all so prone to believe our own burden
heavier than our neighbor's."
"Perhaps--but there can be no question about the weight of David's.
I'm not a bit selfish about him though; poor fellow, I only wish he'd
marry again."
Melicent's last words stung Therese like an insult. Her native pride
rebelled against the reticence of this man who had shared her
confidence while keeping her in ignorance of so important a feature of
his own life. But her dignity would not permit a show of disturbance;
she only asked:--
"How long has his wife been dead?"
"Oh," cried Melicent, in dismay. "I thought you knew of course;
why--she isn't dead at all--they were divorced two years ago."
The girl felt intuitively that she had yielded to an indiscretion of
speech. She could not know David's will in the matter, but since he
had all along left Mrs. Lafirme in ignorance of his domestic trials,
she concluded it was not for her to enlighten that lady further. Her
next remark was to call Therese's attention to the unusual number of
glow-worms that were flashing through the darkness, and to ask the
sign of it, adding "every thing seems to be the sign of something down
here."
"Aunt Belindy might tell you," replied Therese, "I only know that I
feel the signs of being very sleepy after that ride through the woods
to-day. Don't mind if I say good night?"
"Certainly not. Good night, dear Mrs. Lafirme. Let me stay here till
David comes back; I should die of fright, to go to the cottage alone."
VII
Painful Disclosures.
Therese possessed an independence of thought exceptional enough when
considered in relation to her life and its surrounding conditions. But
as a woman who lived in close contact with her fellow-beings she was
little given to the consideration of abstract ideas, except in so far
as they touched the individual man. If ever asked to give her opinion
of divorce, she might have replied that the question being one which
did not immediately concern her, its remoteness had removed it from
the range of her inquiry. She felt vaguely that in many cases it might
be a blessing; conceding that it must not infrequently be a necessity,
to be appealed to however only in an extremity beyond which endurance
could scarcely hold. With the prejudices of her Catholic education
coloring her sentiment, she instinctively shrank when the theme
confronted her as one having even a remote reference to her own clean
existence. There was no question with her of dwelling upon the matter;
it was simply a thing to be summarily dismissed and as far as possible
effaced from her remembrance.
Therese had not reached the age of thirty-five without learning that
life presents many insurmountable obstacles which must be accepted,
whether with the callousness of philosophy, the revolt of weakness or
the dignity of self-respect. The following morning, the only sign
which she gave of her mental disturbance, was an appearance that might
have succeeded a night of unrefreshing sleep.
