She was standing beside him and he took her hand.
"To do a thing out of love for you, would be the only comfort and
strength left me."
"Don't say that," she entreated. "Love isn't everything in life; there
is something higher."
"God in heaven, there shouldn't be!" he exclaimed, passionately
pressing her hand to his forehead, his cheek, his lips.
"Oh, don't make it harder for me," Therese said softly, attempting to
withdraw her hand.
It was her first sign of weakness, and he seized on it for his
advantage. He arose quickly--unhesitatingly--and took her in his arms.
For a moment that was very brief, there was danger that the task of
renunciation would not only be made harder, but impossible, for both;
for it was in utter blindness to everything but love for each other,
that their lips met.
The great plantation bell was clanging out the hour of noon; the hour
for sweet and restful enjoyment; but to Hosmer, the sound was like the
voice of a derisive demon, mocking his anguish of spirit, as he
mounted his horse, and rode back to the mill.
VIII
Treats of Melicent.
Melicent knew that there were exchanges of confidence going on between
her brother and Mrs. Lafirme, from which she was excluded. She had
noted certain lengthy conferences held in remote corners of the
verandas. The two had deliberately withdrawn one moonlight evening to
pace to and fro the length of gravel walk that stretched from door
front to lane; and Melicent had fancied that they rather lingered when
under the deep shadow of the two great live-oaks that overarched the
gate. But that of course was fancy; a young girl's weakness to think
the world must go as she would want it to.
She was quite sure of having heard Mrs. Lafirme say "I will help you."
Could it be that David had fallen into financial straights and wanted
assistance from Therese? No, that was improbable and furthermore,
distasteful, so Melicent would not burden herself with the suspicion.
It was far more agreeable to believe that affairs were shaping
themselves according to her wishes regarding her brother and her
friend. Yet her mystification was in no wise made clearer, when David
left them to go to St. Louis.
Melicent was not ready or willing to leave with him. She had not had
her "visit out" as she informed him, when he proposed it to her. To
remain in the cottage during his absence was out of the question, so
she removed herself and all her pretty belongings over to the house,
taking possession of one of the many spare rooms. The act of removal
furnished her much entertainment of a mild sort, into which, however,
she successfully infused something of her own intensity by making the
occasion one to bring a large detachment of the plantation force into
her capricious service.
Melicent was going out, and she stood before her mirror to make sure
that she looked properly. She was black from head to foot. From the
great ostrich plume that nodded over her wide-brimmed hat, to the
pointed toe of the patent leather boot that peeped from under her
gown--a filmy gauzy thing setting loosely to her slender shapely
figure. She laughed at the somberness of her reflection, which she at
once set about relieving with a great bunch of geraniums--big and
scarlet and long-stemmed, that she thrust slantwise through her belt.
