"Yes," agreed Hector, "I see he has been sending her tamales and
_boudin blanc._"
"_Boudin blanc_, my friend! If it were only that! But I have a stack of
letters, so high,--I could show them to you,--singing of Laballiere,
Laballiere, enough to drive one distracted. He visits her constantly.
He is a man of attainment, she says, a man of courage, a man of heart;
and the best of company. He has sent her a bunch of fat robins as big
as a tub"--
"There is something in that--a good deal in that, mignonne," piped
Maman Chavan, approvingly.
"And now _boudin blanc!_ and she tells me it is the duty of a Christian
to forgive. Ah, no; it's no use; mamma's ways are past finding out."
Suzanne was never in Hector's company elsewhere than at Maman Chavan's.
Beside the Sunday visit, he looked in upon them sometimes at dusk, to
chat for a moment or two. He often treated them to theatre tickets,
and even to the opera, when business was brisk. Business meant a
little note-book that he carried in his pocket, in which he sometimes
dotted down orders from the country people for wine, that he sold on
commission. The women always went together, unaccompanied by any male
escort; trotting along, arm in arm, and brimming with enjoyment.
That same Sunday afternoon Hector walked with them a short distance
when they were on their way to vespers. The three walking abreast
almost occupied the narrow width of the banquette. A gentleman who had
just stepped out of the Hotel Royal stood aside to better enable them
to pass. He lifted his hat to Suzanne, and cast a quick glance, that
pictured stupefaction and wrath, upon Hector.
"It's he!" exclaimed the girl, melodramatically seizing Maman Chavan's
arm.
"Who, he?"
"Laballiere!"
"No!"
"Yes!"
"A handsome fellow, all the same," nodded the little lady, approvingly.
Hector thought so too. The conversation again turned upon Laballiere,
and so continued till they reached the side door of the cathedral,
where the young man left his two companions.
In the evening Laballiere called upon Suzanne. Maman Chavan closed the
front door carefully after he entered the small parlor, and opened the
side one that looked into the privacy of the garden. Then she lighted
the lamp and retired, just as Suzanne entered.
The girl bowed a little stiffly, if it may be said that she did
anything stiffly. "Monsieur Laballiere." That was all she said.
"Mademoiselle St. Denys Godolph," and that was all he said. But
ceremony did not sit easily upon him.
"Mademoiselle," he began, as soon as seated, "I am here as the bearer
of a message from your mother. You must understand that otherwise I
would not be here."
"I do understan', sir, that you an' maman have become very warm frien's
during my absence," she returned, in measured, conventional tones.
"It pleases me immensely to hear that from you," he responded, warmly;
"to believe that Madame St. Denys Godolph is my friend."
