The interest which he felt in the improvement of this plantation was
of so deep a nature, however, that he found himself thinking of it
constantly. He wondered if the timber had all been felled, and how the
fencing was coming on. So great was his desire to know such things
that much correspondence was required between himself and Euphrasie,
and he watched eagerly for those letters that told him of her trials
and vexations with carpenters, bricklayers, and shingle--bearers. But
in the midst of it, Offdean suddenly lost interest in the progress of
work on the plantation. Singularly enough, it happened simultaneously
with the arrival of a letter from Euphrasie which announced in a modest
postscript that she was going down to the city with the Duplans for
Mardi Gras.
VI.
When Offdean learned that Euphrasie was coming to New Orleans, he was
delighted to think he would have an opportunity to make some return for
the hospitality which he had received from her father. He decided at
once that she must see everything: day processions and night parades,
balls and tableaux, operas and plays. He would arrange for it all, and
he went to the length of begging to be relieved of certain duties that
had been assigned him at the club, in order that he might feel himself
perfectly free to do so.
The evening following Euphrasie's arrival, Offdean hastened to call
upon her, away down on Esplanade Street. She and the Duplans were
staying there with old Mme. Carantelle, Mrs. Duplan's mother, a
delightfully conservative old lady who had not "crossed Canal Street"
for many years.
He found a number of people gathered in the long high-ceiled
drawing-room,--young people and old people, all talking French, and
some talking louder than they would have done if Madame Carantelle had
not been so very deaf.
When Offdean entered, the old lady was greeting some one who had come
in just before him. It was Placide, and she was calling him Gregoire,
and wanting to know how the crops were up on Red River. She met every
one from the country with this stereotyped inquiry, which placed her at
once on the agreeable and easy footing she liked.
Somehow Offdean had not counted on finding Euphrasie so well provided
with entertainment, and he spent much of the evening in trying to
persuade himself that the fact was a pleasing one in itself. But he
wondered why Placide was with her, and sat so persistently beside her,
and danced so repeatedly with her when Mrs. Duplan played upon the
piano. Then he could not see by what right these young creoles had
already arranged for the Proteus ball, and every other entertainment
that he had meant to provide for her.
He went away without having had a word alone with the girl whom he
had gone to see. The evening had proved a failure. He did not go to
the club as usual, but went to his rooms in a mood which inclined
him to read a few pages from a stoic philosopher whom he sometimes
affected. But the words of wisdom that had often before helped him over
disagreeable places left no impress to-night. They were powerless to
banish from his thoughts the look of a pair of brown eyes, or to drown
the tones of a girl's voice that kept singing in his soul.
