"May I, Euphrasie?" he begged. "So long as you do not tell me no, I
shall come back, dearest one."
She still made him no reply, but she did not tell him no.
So he kissed her hand and her cheek,--what he could touch of it, that
peeped out from her folded arm,--and went away.
An hour later, when Offdean passed through Natchitoches, the old town
was already ringing with the startling news that Placide had been
dismissed by his _fiancee_, and the wedding was off, information which
the young creole was taking the trouble to scatter broadcast as he
went.
IN AND OUT OF OLD NATCHITOCHES.
Precisely at eight o'clock every morning except Saturdays and Sundays,
Mademoiselle Suzanne St. Denys Godolph would cross the railroad trestle
that spanned Bayou Boispourri. She might have crossed in the flat which
Mr. Alphonse Laballiere kept for his own convenience; but the method
was slow and unreliable; so, every morning at eight, Mademoiselle St.
Denys Godolph crossed the trestle.
She taught public school in a picturesque little white frame structure
that stood upon Mr. Laballiere's land, and hung upon the very brink of
the bayou.
Laballiere himself was comparatively a new-comer in the parish. It was
barely six months since he decided one day to leave the sugar and rice
to his brother Alcee, who had a talent for their cultivation, and to
try his hand at cotton-planting. That was why he was up in Natchitoches
parish on a piece of rich, high, Cane River land, knocking into shape
a tumbled-down plantation that he had bought for next to nothing.
He had often during his perambulations observed the trim, graceful
figure stepping cautiously over the ties, and had sometimes shivered
for its safety. He always exchanged a greeting with the girl, and once
threw a plank over a muddy pool for her to step upon. He caught but
glimpses of her features, for she wore an enormous sun-bonnet to shield
her complexion, that seemed marvelously fair; while loosely--fitting
leather gloves protected her hands. He knew she was the school-teacher,
and also that she was the daughter of that very pig-headed old Madame
St. Denys Godolph who was hoarding her barren acres across the bayou as
a miser hoards gold. Starving over them, some people said. But that was
nonsense; nobody starves on a Louisiana plantation, unless it be with
suicidal intent.
These things he knew, but he did not know why Mademoiselle St. Denys
Godolph always answered his salutation with an air of chilling hauteur
that would easily have paralyzed a less sanguine man.
The reason was that Suzanne, like every one else, had heard the stories
that were going the rounds about him. People said he was entirely too
much at home with the free mulattoes.[1] It seems a dreadful thing to
say, and it would be a shocking thing to think of a Laballiere; but it
was n't true.
When Laballiere took possession of his land, he found the
plantation-house occupied by one Giestin and his swarming family. It
was past reckoning how long the free mulatto and his people had been
there. The house was a six-room, long, shambling affair, shrinking
together from decrepitude. There was not an entire pane of glass in the
structure; and the Turkey-red curtains flapped in and out of the broken
apertures. But there is no need to dwell upon details; it was wholly
unfit to serve as a civilized human habitation; and Alphonse Laballiere
would no sooner have disturbed its contented occupants than he would
have scattered a family of partridges nesting in a corner of his field.
He established himself with a few belongings in the best cabin he could
find on the place, and, without further ado, proceeded to supervise the
building of house, of gin, of this, that, and the other, and to look
into the hundred details that go to set a neglected plantation in good
working order. He took his meals at the free mulatto's, quite apart
from the family, of course; and they attended, not too skillfully, to
his few domestic wants.
