He appeared shocked at such materialism.
In the evening a footman from the chateau brought him a basketful of
little books relating pious phrases of the great Napoleon, witticisms of
clergymen at inns, frightful deaths that had happened to atheists. All
those things Madame de Noares knew by heart, along with an infinite
number of miracles. She related several stupid ones--miracles without an
object, as if God had performed them to excite the wonder of the world.
Her own grandmother had locked up in a cupboard some prunes covered with
a piece of linen, and when the cupboard was opened a year later they saw
thirteen of them on the cloth forming a cross.
"Explain this to me."
This was the phrase she used after her marvellous tales, which she
declared to be true, with the obstinacy of a mule. Apart from this she
was a harmless woman of lively disposition.
On one occasion, however, she deviated from her character.
Bouvard was disputing with her about the miracle of Pezilla: this was a
fruit-dish in which wafers had been hidden during the Revolution and
which had become gilded of itself.
"Perhaps there was at the bottom a little yellow colour caused by
humidity?"
"Not at all! I repeat it, there was not! The cause of the gilding was
the contact with the Eucharist."
By way of proof she relied on the attestations of bishops.
"It is, they say, like a buckler, a--a palladium over the diocese of
Perpignan. Ask Monsieur Jeufroy, then!"
Bouvard could not stand this kind of talk any longer; and, after he had
looked over his Louis Hervieu, he took Pecuchet off with them.
The clergyman was finishing his dinner. Reine offered them chairs, and,
at a gesture from her master, she went to fetch two little glasses,
which she filled with Rosolio.
After this Bouvard explained what had brought him there.
The abbe did not reply candidly.
"Everything is possible to God, and the miracles are a proof of
religion."
"However, there are laws of nature--"
"That makes no difference to Him. He sets them aside in order to
instruct, to correct."
"How do you know whether He sets them aside?" returned Bouvard. "So long
as Nature follows her routine we never bestow a thought on it, but in an
extraordinary phenomenon we believe we see the hand of God."
"It may be there," replied the ecclesiastic; "and when an occurrence has
been certified by witnesses----"
"The witnesses swallow everything, for there are spurious miracles."
The priest grew red.
"Undoubtedly; sometimes."
"How can we distinguish them from the genuine ones? If the genuine ones,
given as proofs, have themselves need of proofs, why perform them?"
Reine interposed, and, preaching like her master, said it was necessary
to obey.
"Life is a passage, but death is eternal."
"In short," suggested Bouvard, guzzling the Rosolio, "the miracles of
former times are not better demonstrated than the miracles of to-day;
analogous reasonings uphold those of Christians and Pagans."
The cure flung down his fork on the table.
