"Reparation?"
"For stains?"
"Enough! gentlemen. You don't understand me." Then, addressing Foureau:
"Sorel is informed about it. Go to him."
Bouvard and Pecuchet withdrew without bowing.
At the end of the avenue they all three gave vent to their indignation.
"They treated me as if I were a servant," grumbled Foureau; and, as his
companions agreed with him, in spite of their recollection of the affair
of the hemorrhoids, he exhibited towards them a kind of sympathy.
Road-menders were working in the neighbourhood. The man who was over
them drew near: it was Gorju. They began to chat.
He was overseeing the macadamisation of the road, voted in 1848, and he
owed this post to M. de Mahurot, the engineer. "The one that's going to
marry Mademoiselle de Faverges. I suppose 'tis from the house below you
were just coming?"
"For the last time," said Pecuchet gruffly.
Gorju assumed an innocent air. "A quarrel! Come, come!"
And if they could have seen his countenance when they had turned on
their heels, they might have observed that he had scented the cause of
it.
A little further on, they stopped before a trellised enclosure, inside
which there were kennels, and also a red-tiled cottage.
Victorine was on the threshold. They heard dogs barking. The
gamekeeper's wife came out. Knowing the object of the mayor's visit, she
called to Victor. Everything was ready beforehand, and their outfit was
contained in two pocket-handkerchiefs fastened together with pins.
"A pleasant journey," said the woman to the children, too glad to have
no more to do with such vermin.
Was it their fault if they owed their birth to a convict father? On the
contrary, they seemed very quiet, and did not even betray any alarm as
to the place to which they were being conveyed.
Bouvard and Pecuchet watched them as they walked in front of them.
Victorine muttered some unintelligible words, with her little bundle
over her arm, like a milliner carrying a bandbox.
Every now and then she would turn round, and Pecuchet, at the sight of
her fair curls and her pretty figure, regretted that he had not such a
child. Brought up under different conditions, she would be charming
later. What happiness only to see her growing tall, to hear day after
day her bird-like warbling, to kiss her when the fancy seized him!--and
a feeling of tenderness, rising from his heart to his lips, made his
eyes grow moist and somewhat oppressed his spirit.
Victor, like a soldier, had slung his baggage over his shoulder. He
whistled, threw stones at the crows in the furrows, and went to cut
switches off the trees.
Foureau called him back; and Bouvard, holding him by the hand, was
delighted at feeling within his own those fingers of a robust and
vigorous lad. The poor little wretch asked for nothing but to grow
freely, like a flower in the open air! and he would rot between closed
walls with tasks, punishment, a heap of tomfooleries! Bouvard was seized
with pity, springing from a sense of revolt, a feeling of indignation
against Fate, one of those fits of rage in which one longs to destroy
government altogether.
