"Victor--Victorine."
"Where was their father?'
"In jail."
"And what was he doing before that?"
"Nothing."
"Their country?"
"St. Pierre."
"But which St. Pierre?"
The two little ones for sole response, said, snivelling:
"Don't know--don't know."
Their mother was dead, and they were begging.
Madame de Noares explained how dangerous it would be to abandon them;
she moved the countess, piqued the count's sense of honour, was backed
up by mademoiselle, pressed the matter--succeeded.
The gamekeeper's wife would take charge of them. Later, work would be
found for them, and, as they did not know how to read or write, Madame
de Noares gave them lessons herself, with a view to preparing them for
catechism.
When M. Jeufroy used to come to the chateau, the two youngsters would be
sent for; he would question them, and then deliver a lecture, into which
he would import a certain amount of display on account of his audience.
On one occasion, when the abbe had discoursed about the patriarchs,
Bouvard, on the way home with him and Pecuchet, disparaged them very
much.
"Jacob is notorious for his thieveries, David for his murders, Solomon
for his debaucheries."
The abbe replied that we should look further into the matter. Abraham's
sacrifice is a prefigurement of the Passion; Jacob is another type of
the Messiah, just like Joseph, like the Brazen Serpent, like Moses.
"Do you believe," said Bouvard, "that he composed the 'Pentateuch'?"
"Yes, no doubt."
"And yet his death is recorded in it; the same observation applies to
Joshua; and, as for the Judges, the author informs us that, at the
period whose history he was writing, Israel had not yet kings. The work
was, therefore, written under the Kings. The Prophets, too, astonish
me."
"He's going to deny the Prophets now!"
"Not at all! but their overheated imagination saw Jehovah under
different forms--that of a fire, of a bush, of an old man, of a dove;
and they were not certain of revelation since they are always asking for
a sign."
"Ha! and where have you found out these nice things?"
"In Spinoza."
At this word, the cure jumped.
"Have you read him?"
"God forbid!"
"Nevertheless, sir, science----"
"Sir, no one can be a scholar without being a Christian."
Science furnished a subject for sarcasms on his part:
"Will it make an ear of corn sprout, this science of yours? What do we
know?" he said.
But he did know that the world was created for us; he did know that
archangels are above the angels; he did know that the human body will
rise again such as it was about the age of thirty.
His ecclesiastical self-complacency provoked Bouvard, who, through want
of confidence in Louis Hervieu, had written to Varlot; and Pecuchet,
better informed, asked M. Jeufroy for explanations of Scripture.
The six days of Genesis mean six great epochs. The pillage of the
precious vessels made by the Jews from the Egyptians must be interpreted
to mean intellectual riches, the arts of which they had stolen the
secret. Isaiah did not strip himself completely, _nudus_ in Latin
signifying "up to the hips": thus Virgil advises people to go naked in
order to plough, and that writer would not have given a precept opposed
to decency. Ezekiel devouring a book has nothing extraordinary in it; do
we not speak of devouring a pamphlet, a newspaper?
