"Attention, you know. _Debetur pueris._"
Bouvard assured him that he humbled himself in the presence of the
Creator, but was indignant at their having made Him a man. We fear His
vengeance; we work for His glory. He has every virtue: an arm, an eye, a
policy, a habitation.
"'Our Father, who art in heaven,' what does that mean?"
And Pecuchet added: "The universe has become enlarged; the earth is no
longer its central point. It revolves amongst an infinite multitude of
other worlds. Many of them surpass it in grandeur, and this belittlement
of our globe shows a more sublime ideal of God.
"So, then, religion must change. Paradise is something infantile, with
its blessed always in a state of contemplation, always chanting hymns,
and looking from on high at the tortures of the damned. When one
reflects that Christianity had for its basis an apple!"
The cure was annoyed. "Deny revelation; that would be simpler."
"How do you make out that God spoke?" said Bouvard.
"Prove that he did not speak!" said M. Jeufroy.
"Once again, who affirms it?"
"The Church."
"Nice testimony!"
This discussion bored M. de Mahurot, and, as he walked along: "Pray
listen to the cure. He knows more than you."
Bouvard and Pecuchet made signs to indicate that they were taking
another road; then, at Croix-Verte:
"A very good evening."
"Your servant," said the baron.
All this would be told to M. de Faverges, and perhaps a rupture would
result. So much the worse. They felt that they were despised by those
people of rank. They were never asked to dinner, and they were tired of
Madame de Noares, with her continual remonstrances.
They could not, however, keep the De Maistre; and a fortnight after they
returned to the chateau, not expecting to be welcomed, but they were.
All the family were in the boudoir, and amongst those present were Hurel
and, strangely enough, Foureau.
Correction had failed to correct Victor. He refused to learn his
catechism; and Victorine gave utterance to vulgar words. In short, the
boy should go to a reformatory, and the girl to a nunnery. Foureau was
charged with carrying out the measure, and he was about to go when the
countess called him back.
They were waiting for M. Jeufroy to fix the date of the marriage, which
was to take place at the
[Illustration: BOUVART AND PECUCHET CARRIED THEM OFF]
mayor's office before being celebrated in the church, in order to show
that they looked on civil marriage with contempt.
Foureau tried to defend it. The count and Hurel attacked it. What was a
municipal function beside a priesthood?--and the baron would not have
believed himself to be really wedded if he had been married only in the
presence of a tri-coloured scarf.
"Bravo!" said M. Jeufroy, who had just come in. "Marriage having been
established by Jesus Christ----"
Pecuchet stopped him: "In which Gospel? In the Apostolic times they
respected it so little that Tertullian compares it to adultery."
