"That is not all! While I was giving him a scolding, he turned his back
on me!"
And, ere the count and countess could have said a word:
"However, it is my own fault: pardon me!"
She had concealed from them the fact that the two orphans were the
children of Touache, who was now in prison.
What was to be done?
If the count sent them away they would be lost, and his act of charity
would be taken for a caprice.
M. Jeufroy was not surprised. Since man is corrupt, our natural duty is
to punish him in order to improve him.
Bouvard protested. Leniency was better. But the count once more
expatiated on the iron hand indispensable for children as well as for
the people. These two children were full of vices--the little girl was
untruthful, the boy brutish. This theft, after all, might have been
excused, the impertinence never. Education should be the school of
respect.
Therefore Sorel, the gamekeeper, would immediately administer to the
youngster a good flogging.
M. de Mahurot, who had something to say to him, undertook the
commission. He went to the anteroom for a gun, and called Victor, who
had remained in the centre of the courtyard with downcast head.
"Follow me," said the baron. As the way to the gamekeeper's lodge turned
off a little from Chavignolles, M. Jeufroy, Bouvard, and Pecuchet
accompanied him.
At a hundred paces from the chateau, he begged them not to speak any
more while he was walking along the wood.
The ground sloped down to the river's edge, where rose great blocks of
stone. At sunset they looked like slabs of gold. On the opposite side
the green hillocks were wrapped in shadow. A keen wind was blowing.
Rabbits came out of their burrows, and began browsing on the grass.
A shot went off; a second; a third: and the rabbits jumped up, then
rolled over. Victor flung himself on them to seize hold of them, and
panted, soaking with perspiration.
"You have your clothes in nice condition!" said the baron.
There was blood on his ragged blouse.
Bouvard shrank from the sight of blood. He would not admit that it ever
should be shed.
M. Jeufroy returned:
"Circumstances sometimes make it necessary. If the guilty person does
not give his own, there is need of another's--a truth which the
Redemption teaches us."
According to Bouvard, it had been of hardly any use, since nearly all
mankind would be damned, in spite of the sacrifice of Our Lord.
"But every day He renews it in the Eucharist."
"And whatever be the unworthiness of the priest," said Pecuchet, "the
miracle takes place at the words."
"There is the mystery, sir."
Meanwhile Victor had riveted his eyes on the gun, and he even tried to
touch it.
"Down with your paws!" And M. de Mahurot took a long path through the
wood.
The clergyman had placed Pecuchet on one side of him and Bouvard at the
other, and said to the latter:
