There is an account of a boy who got broken all up into small bits by
an accident, but said over the Scientific Statement of Being, or some of
the other incantations, and got well and sound without having suffered
any real pain and without the intrusion of a surgeon.
Also, there is an account of the restoration to perfect health, in
a single night, of a fatally injured horse, by the application of
Christian Science. I can stand a good deal, but I recognize that the ice
is getting thin, here. That horse had as many as fifty claims; how
could he demonstrate over them? Could he do the All-Good, Good-Good,
Good-Gracious, Liver, Bones, Truth, All down but Nine, Set them up on
the Other Alley? Could he intone the Scientific Statement of Being?
Now, could he? Wouldn't it give him a relapse? Let us draw the line at
horses. Horses and furniture.
There is plenty of other testimonies in the magazine, but these quoted
samples will answer. They show the kind of trade the Science is driving.
Now we come back to the question, Does the Science kill a patient here
and there and now and then? We must concede it. Does it compensate
for this? I am persuaded that it can make a plausible showing in that
direction. For instance: when it lays its hand upon a soldier who has
suffered thirty years of helpless torture and makes him whole in body
and mind, what is the actual sum of that achievement? This, I think:
that it has restored to life a subject who had essentially died ten
deaths a year for thirty years, and each of them a long and painful one.
But for its interference that man in the three years which have since
elapsed, would have essentially died thirty times more. There are
thousands of young people in the land who are now ready to enter upon a
life-long death similar to that man's. Every time the Science
captures one of these and secures to him life-long immunity from
imagination-manufactured disease, it may plausibly claim that in his
person it has saved three hundred lives. Meantime, it will kill a man
every now and then. But no matter, it will still be ahead on the credit
side.
[NOTE.--I have received several letters (two from educated and
ostensibly intelligent persons), which contained, in substance, this
protest: "I don't object to men and women chancing their lives with
these people, but it is a burning shame that the law should allow them
to trust their helpless little children in their deadly hands." Isn't it
touching? Isn't it deep? Isn't it modest? It is as if the person said:
"I know that to a parent his child is the core of his heart, the apple
of his eye, a possession so dear, so precious that he will trust its
life in no hands but those which he believes, with all his soul, to be
the very best and the very safest, but it is a burning shame that the
law does not require him to come to me to ask what kind of healer I will
allow him to call." The public is merely a multiplied "me."--M.T.]
