   Bru. Come sir come, we know you well enough
   Menen. You know neither mee, your selues, nor any
thing: you are ambitious, for poore knaues cappes and
legges: you weare out a good wholesome Forenoone, in
hearing a cause betweene an Orendge wife, and a Forfetseller,
and then reiourne the Controuersie of three-pence
to a second day of Audience. When you are hearing a
matter betweene party and party, if you chaunce to bee
pinch'd with the Collike, you make faces like Mummers,
set vp the bloodie Flagge against all Patience, and
in roaring for a Chamber-pot, dismisse the Controuersie
bleeding, the more intangled by your hearing: All the
peace you make in their Cause, is calling both the parties
Knaues. You are a payre of strange ones
   Bru. Come, come, you are well vnderstood to bee a
perfecter gyber for the Table, then a necessary Bencher in
the Capitoll
   Men. Our very Priests must become Mockers, if they
shall encounter such ridiculous Subiects as you are, when
you speake best vnto the purpose. It is not woorth the
wagging of your Beards, and your Beards deserue not so
honourable a graue, as to stuffe a Botchers Cushion, or to
be intomb'd in an Asses Packe-saddle; yet you must bee
saying, Martius is proud: who in a cheape estimation, is
worth all your predecessors, since Deucalion, though peraduenture
some of the best of 'em were hereditarie hangmen.
Godden to your Worships, more of your conuersation
would infect my Braine, being the Heardsmen of
the Beastly Plebeans. I will be bold to take my leaue of
you.
Bru. and Scic. Aside.
Enter Volumnia, Virgilia, and Valeria.
How now (my as faire as Noble) Ladyes, and the Moone
were shee Earthly, no Nobler; whither doe you follow
your Eyes so fast?
  Volum. Honorable Menenius, my Boy Martius approches:
for the loue of Iuno let's goe
   Menen. Ha? Martius comming home?
  Volum. I, worthy Menenius, and with most prosperous
approbation
   Menen. Take my Cappe Iupiter, and I thanke thee:
hoo, Martius comming home?
  2.Ladies. Nay, 'tis true
   Volum. Looke, here's a Letter from him, the State hath
another, his Wife another, and (I thinke) there's one at
home for you
   Menen. I will make my very house reele to night:
A Letter for me?
  Virgil. Yes certaine, there's a Letter for you, I saw't
   Menen. A Letter for me? it giues me an Estate of seuen
yeeres health; in which time, I will make a Lippe at
the Physician: The most soueraigne Prescription in Galen,
is but Emperickqutique; and to this Preseruatiue, of no
better report then a Horse-drench. Is he not wounded?
he was wont to come home wounded?
  Virgil. Oh no, no, no
   Volum. Oh, he is wounded, I thanke the Gods for't
   Menen. So doe I too, if it be not too much: brings a
Victorie in his Pocket? the wounds become him
   Volum. On's Browes: Menenius, hee comes the third
time home with the Oaken Garland
   Menen. Ha's he disciplin'd Auffidius soundly?
  Volum. Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but
Auffidius got off
