"'I have no reports of it,' says the Duchess. 'But your excellency should
taste these figs stewed in malmsey--'
"'I am in the mood to taste whatever you offer,' said he; and as she helped
him to the figs he added, 'If my enjoyment were not complete as it is,
I could almost wish my cousin Ascanio were with us. The fellow is rare
good company at supper. What do you say, Madam? I hear he's still in the
country; shall we send for him to join us?'
"'Ah,' said the Duchess, with a sigh and a languishing look, 'I see your
excellency wearies of me already.'
"'I, Madam? Ascanio is a capital good fellow, but to my mind his chief
merit at this moment is his absence. It inclines me so tenderly to him
that, by God, I could empty a glass to his good health.'
"With that the Duke caught up his goblet and signed to the servant to fill
the Duchess's.
"'Here's to the cousin,' he cried, standing, 'who has the good taste to
stay away when he's not wanted. I drink to his very long life--and you,
Madam?'
"At this the Duchess, who had sat staring at him with a changed face, rose
also and lifted her glass to her lips.
"'And I to his happy death,' says she in a wild voice; and as she spoke the
empty goblet dropped from her hand and she fell face down on the floor.
"The Duke shouted to her women that she had swooned, and they came and
lifted her to the bed.... She suffered horribly all night, Nencia said,
twisting herself like a heretic at the stake, but without a word escaping
her. The Duke watched by her, and toward daylight sent for the chaplain;
but by this she was unconscious and, her teeth being locked, our Lord's
body could not be passed through them.
       *       *       *       *       *
"The Duke announced to his relations that his lady had died after partaking
too freely of spiced wine and an omelet of carp's roe, at a supper she had
prepared in honor of his return; and the next year he brought home a new
Duchess, who gave him a son and five daughters...."
V
The sky had turned to a steel gray, against which the villa stood out
sallow and inscrutable. A wind strayed through the gardens, loosening here
and there a yellow leaf from the sycamores; and the hills across the valley
were purple as thunder-clouds.
       *       *       *       *       *
"And the statue--?" I asked.
"Ah, the statue. Well, sir, this is what my grandmother told me, here on
this very bench where we're sitting. The poor child, who worshipped the
Duchess as a girl of her years will worship a beautiful kind mistress,
spent a night of horror, you may fancy, shut out from her lady's room,
hearing the cries that came from it, and seeing, as she crouched in her
corner, the women rush to and fro with wild looks, the Duke's lean face in
the door, and the chaplain skulking in the antechamber with his eyes on
his breviary. No one minded her that night or the next morning; and toward
dusk, when it became known the Duchess was no more, the poor girl felt the
pious wish to say a prayer for her dead mistress. She crept to the chapel
and stole in unobserved. The place was empty and dim, but as she advanced
she heard a low moaning, and coming in front of the statue she saw that
its face, the day before so sweet and smiling, had the look on it that you
know--and the moaning seemed to come from its lips. My grandmother turned
cold, but something, she said afterward, kept her from calling or shrieking
out, and she turned and ran from the place. In the passage she fell in a
swoon; and when she came to her senses, in her own chamber, she heard that
the Duke had locked the chapel door and forbidden any to set foot there....
The place was never opened again till the Duke died, some ten years later;
and then it was that the other servants, going in with the new heir,
saw for the first time the horror that my grandmother had kept in her
bosom...."
