"Oh, no!--'die Kraft ist schwach, allein die Lust ist gross,' as
Mephistopheles says."
"Ah, you are a student of Goethe. Young ladies are so advanced now. I
suppose you have read everything."
"No, really. I shall be so glad if you will tell me what to read. I
have been looking into all the books in the library at Offendene, but
there is nothing readable. The leaves all stick together and smell
musty. I wish I could write books to amuse myself, as you can! How
delightful it must be to write books after one's own taste instead of
reading other people's! Home-made books must be so nice."
For an instant Mrs. Arrowpoint's glance was a little sharper, but the
perilous resemblance to satire in the last sentence took the hue of
girlish simplicity when Gwendolen added--
"I would give anything to write a book!"
"And why should you not?" said Mrs. Arrowpoint, encouragingly. "You
have but to begin as I did. Pen, ink, and paper are at everybody's
command. But I will send you all I have written with pleasure."
"Thanks. I shall be so glad to read your writings. Being acquainted
with authors must give a peculiar understanding of their books: one
would be able to tell then which parts were funny and which serious. I
am sure I often laugh in the wrong place." Here Gwendolen herself
became aware of danger, and added quickly, "In Shakespeare, you know,
and other great writers that we can never see. But I always want to
know more than there is in the books."
"If you are interested in any of my subjects I can lend you many extra
sheets in manuscript," said Mrs. Arrowpoint--while Gwendolen felt
herself painfully in the position of the young lady who professed to
like potted sprats.
"These are things I dare say I shall publish eventually: several
friends have urged me to do so, and one doesn't like to be obstinate.
My Tasso, for example--I could have made it twice the size."
"I dote on Tasso," said Gwendolen.
"Well, you shall have all my papers, if you like. So many, you know,
have written about Tasso; but they are all wrong. As to the particular
nature of his madness, and his feelings for Leonora, and the real cause
of his imprisonment, and the character of Leonora, who, in my opinion,
was a cold-hearted woman, else she would have married him in spite of
her brother--they are all wrong. I differ from everybody."
"How very interesting!" said Gwendolen. "I like to differ from
everybody. I think it is so stupid to agree. That is the worst of
writing your opinions; you make people agree with you." This speech
renewed a slight suspicion in Mrs. Arrowpoint, and again her glance
became for a moment examining. But Gwendolen looked very innocent, and
continued with a docile air:
"I know nothing of Tasso except the _Gerusalemme Liberata_, which we
read and learned by heart at school."
"Ah, his life is more interesting than his poetry, I have constructed
the early part of his life as a sort of romance. When one thinks of his
father Bernardo, and so on, there is much that must be true."
