"Gwendolen desires above all things to have a horse to ride--a pretty,
light, lady's horse," said Mrs. Davilow, looking at Mr. Gascoigne. "Do
you think we can manage it?"
Mr. Gascoigne projected his lower lip and lifted his handsome eyebrows
sarcastically at Gwendolen, who had seated herself with much grace on
the elbow of her mamma's chair.
"We could lend her the pony sometimes," said Mrs. Gascoigne, watching
her husband's face, and feeling quite ready to disapprove if he did.
"That might be inconveniencing others, aunt, and would be no pleasure
to me. I cannot endure ponies," said Gwendolen. "I would rather give up
some other indulgence and have a horse." (Was there ever a young lady
or gentleman not ready to give up an unspecified indulgence for the
sake of the favorite one specified?)
"She rides so well. She has had lessons, and the riding-master said she
had so good a seat and hand she might be trusted with any mount," said
Mrs. Davilow, who, even if she had not wished her darling to have the
horse, would not have dared to be lukewarm in trying to get it for her.
"There is the price of the horse--a good sixty with the best chance,
and then his keep," said Mr. Gascoigne, in a tone which, though
demurring, betrayed the inward presence of something that favored the
demand. "There are the carriage-horses--already a heavy item. And
remember what you ladies cost in toilet now."
"I really wear nothing but two black dresses," said Mrs. Davilow,
hastily. "And the younger girls, of course, require no toilet at
present. Besides, Gwendolen will save me so much by giving her sisters
lessons." Here Mrs. Davilow's delicate cheek showed a rapid blush. "If
it were not for that, I must really have a more expensive governess,
and masters besides."
Gwendolen felt some anger with her mamma, but carefully concealed it.
"That is good--that is decidedly good," said Mr. Gascoigne, heartily,
looking at his wife. And Gwendolen, who, it must be owned, was a deep
young lady, suddenly moved away to the other end of the long
drawing-room, and busied herself with arranging pieces of music.
"The dear child has had no indulgences, no pleasures," said Mrs.
Davilow, in a pleading undertone. "I feel the expense is rather
imprudent in this first year of our settling. But she really needs the
exercise--she needs cheering. And if you were to see her on horseback,
it is something splendid."
"It is what we could not afford for Anna," said Mrs. Gascoigne. "But
she, dear child, would ride Lotta's donkey and think it good enough."
(Anna was absorbed in a game with Isabel, who had hunted out an old
back-gammon-board, and had begged to sit up an extra hour.)
"Certainly, a fine woman never looks better than on horseback," said
Mr. Gascoigne. "And Gwendolen has the figure for it. I don't say the
thing should not be considered."
"We might try it for a time, at all events. It can be given up, if
necessary," said Mrs. Davilow.
