"So Boots goes up stairs to the parlor, and there he finds Master Harry
on an enormous sofa a-drying the eyes of Miss Norah with his
pocket-hankecher. Their little legs were entirely off the ground of
course, and it really is not possible for Boots to express to me how
small them children looked.
"'It's Cobbs! It's Cobbs!' cries Master Harry, and comes running to him,
and catching hold of his hand. Miss Norah comes running to him on
t'other side, and catching hold of his t'other hand, and they both jump
for joy.
"'I see you a-getting out, sir,' says Cobbs. 'I thought it was you. I
thought I couldn't be mistaken in your height and figure. What's the
object of your journey, sir? Are you going to be married?'
"'We are going to be married, Cobbs, at Gretna Green,' returned the boy.
'We have run away on purpose. Norah has been in rather low spirits,
Cobbs; but she'll be happy, now we have found you to be our friend.'
"'Thank you, sir, and thank _you_, miss,' says Cobbs, 'for your good
opinion. Did you bring any luggage with you, sir?'
"If I will believe Boots when he gives me his word and honor upon it,
the lady had got a parasol, a smelling-bottle, a round and a half of
cold buttered toast, eight peppermint drops, and a hair-brush--seemingly
a doll's. The gentleman had got about half a dozen yards of string, a
knife, three or four sheets of writing-paper folded up surprisingly
small, an orange, and a china mug with his name upon it.
"'What may be the exact natur' of your plans, sir?' says Cobbs.
"'To go on,' replied the boy--which the courage of that boy was
something wonderful!--'in the morning, and be married to-morrow.'
"'Just so, sir,' says Cobbs. 'Would it meet your views, sir, if I was to
go with you?'
"When Cobbs said this, they both jumped for joy again, and cried out,
'Oh, yes, yes, Cobbs! Yes!'
"'Well, sir,' says Cobbs. 'If you will excuse my having the freedom to
give an opinion, what I should recommend would be this. I'm acquainted
with a pony, sir, which, put in a phaeton that I could borrow, would
take you and Mrs. Harry Walmers, Jr. (myself driving, if you agree), to
the end of your journey in a very short space of time. I am not
altogether sure, sir, that this pony will be at liberty to-morrow, but
even if you had to wait over to-morrow for him, it might be worth your
while. As to the small account for your board here, sir, in case you was
to find yourself running at all short, that don't signify, because I'm a
part proprietor of this inn, and it could stand over.'
"Boots tells me that when they clapped their hands and jumped for joy
again, and called him, 'Good Cobbs!' and 'Dear Cobbs!' and bent across
him to kiss one another in the delight of their trusting hearts, he felt
himself the meanest rascal for deceiving 'em that ever was born.
