"After breakfast Boots is inclined to think that they drawed
soldiers--at least, he knows that many such was found in the fireplace,
all on horseback. In the course of the morning Master Harry rang the
bell--it was surprising how that there boy did carry on--and said in a
sprightly way, 'Cobbs, is there any good walks in this neighborhood?'
"'Yes, sir,' says Cobbs. 'There's Love Lane.'
"'Get out with you, Cobbs!'--that was that there boy's
expression--'you're joking.'
"'Begging your pardon, sir,' says Cobbs, 'there really is Love Lane. And
a pleasant walk it is, and proud I shall be to show it to yourself and
Mrs. Harry Walmers, Jr.'
"'Norah, dear,' said Master Harry, 'this is curious. We really ought to
see Love Lane. Put on your bonnet, my sweetest darling, and we will go
there with Cobbs.'
"Boots leaves me to judge what a beast he felt himself to be, when that
young pair told him, as they all three jogged along together, that they
had made up their minds to give him two thousand guineas a year as
head-gardener, on account of his being so true a friend to 'em. Boots
could have wished at the moment that the earth would have opened and
swallowed him up; he felt so mean with their beaming eyes a-looking at
him, and believing him. Well, sir, he turned the conversation as well as
he could, and he took 'em down Love Lane to the water-meadows, and there
Master Harry would have drowned himself in half a moment more, a-getting
out a water-lily for her--but nothing frightened that boy. Well, sir,
they was tired out. All being so new and strange to 'em, they was tired
as tired could be. And they laid down on a bank of daisies, like the
children in the wood, leastways meadows, and fell asleep.
"Well, sir, they woke up at last, and then one thing was getting pretty
clear to Boots, namely, that Mrs. Harry Walmers', Jr., temper was on the
move. When Master Harry took her round the waist she said he 'teased her
so,' and when he says, 'Norah, my young May Moon, your Harry tease you?'
she tells him, 'Yes; and I want to go home!'
"However, Master Harry he kept up, and his noble heart was as fond as
ever. Mrs. Walmers turned very sleepy about dusk and began to cry.
Therefore, Mrs. Walmers went off to bed as per yesterday; and Master
Harry ditto repeated.
"About eleven or twelve at night comes back the inn-keeper in a chaise,
along with Mr. Walmers and an elderly lady. Mr. Walmers looks amused and
very serious, both at once, and says to our missis, 'We are very much
indebted to you, ma'am, for your kind care of our little children, which
we can never sufficiently acknowledge. Pray, ma'am where is my boy?' Our
missis says, 'Cobbs has the dear children in charge, sir. Cobbs, show
forty!' Then he says to Cobbs, 'Ah, Cobbs! I am glad to see _you_. I
understand you was here!' And Cobbs says, 'Yes, sir. Your most obedient,
sir.'
