LENTULUS.  Ah, Catiline, you rave!  Nothing of this
Had we in mind.
GABINIUS.  What will it profit us
To conjure up again those ancient days
With all their dull simplicity?
SOME.  No, no!
Might we demand--
OTHERS.  --and means enough to live
A gay and carefree life!
MANY VOICES.  That is our aim!
COEPARIUS.  Is it for others' happiness and freedom
We stake our lives upon a throw of dice?
THE WHOLE GROUP.  We want the spoils of victory!
CATILINE.  Paltry race!
Are you the offspring of those ancient fathers?
To heap dishonor on your country's name,--
In such a way you would preserve its lustre!
LENTULUS.  And you dare taunt us,--you who long since were
A terrifying token--
CATILINE.  True, I was;
I was a terror to the good; and yet,
So paltry as you are was never I.
LENTULUS.  Restrain your tongue; we brook no ridicule.
MANY.  No, no,--we will not--
CATILINE.  [Calmly.]  So?  You timid brood,--
You dare to think of doing something,--you?
LENTULUS.  Ah, down with him!
MANY VOICES.  Yes, down with Catiline!
[They draw their daggers and rush in on him; CATILINE calmly
removes the cloak from his breast and regards them with a cold,
scornful smile; they lower their daggers.]
CATILINE.
Thrust!  Thrust!  You dare not?  Oh, my friends, my friends,--
I should respect you, if you plunged your daggers
In this uncovered bosom, as you threaten.
Is there no spark of courage in your souls?
SOME.  He means our weal!
OTHERS.  His taunts we have deserved.
CATILINE.  You have, indeed.--Yet, see,--the hour is come
When you can wash away the blot of shame.
All that is of the past we will forget;--
A new existence is in store for us.
CATILINE.  [With bitterness.]
Fool that I am!  To stake success on you!
Burns any zeal within this craven mob?
CATILINE.  [Carried away.]
Time was my dreams were glorious; great visions
Rushed through my mind or swept before my gaze.
I dreamed that, winged like Icarus of old,
I flew aloft beneath the vault of heaven;
I dreamed the gods endued my hands with strength
Of giants, offered me the lightning flash.
And this hand seized the lightning in its flight
And hurled it at the city far beneath.
And when the crimson flames lapped all, and rose
As Rome fell crumbling in a heap of ruins,--
Then called I with a loud and mighty voice,
And conjured Cato's comrades from the grave;
Thousands of spirits heard my call and came,--
Took life again--raised Rome from out her ashes.
[He breaks off.]
CATILINE.  These were but dreams!  Gods do not conjure up
The by-gone past into the light of day,--
And parted spirits never leave the grave.
CATILINE.  [Wildly.]  Is now this hand unable to restore
The ancient Rome, our Rome it shall destroy.
Where marble colonnades now towering stand,
Pillars of smoke through crackling flames shall whirl;
Then shall the Capitol crumble from its heights,
And palaces and temples sink to ruin!
CATILINE.  Swear, comrades, that you dedicate your lives
To this great purpose!  I shall take the lead.
Say,--will you follow me?
