At this command, to Rose's great dismay, six more hands were offered,
and it was evident that she was expected to shake them _all_. It was a
trying moment to the bashful child; but, remembering that they were her
kinsmen come to welcome her, she tried her best to return the greeting
cordially.
This impressive ceremony being over, the clan broke ranks, and both
rooms instantly appeared to be pervaded with boys. Rose hastily retired
to the shelter of a big chair and sat there watching the invaders and
wondering when her aunt would come and rescue her.
As if bound to do their duty manfully, yet rather oppressed by it, each
lad paused beside her chair in his wanderings, made a brief remark,
received a still briefer answer, and then sheered off with a relieved
expression.
Archie came first, and, leaning over the chair-back, observed in a
paternal tone,--
"I'm glad you've come, cousin, and I hope you'll find the Aunt-hill
pretty jolly."
"I think I shall."
Mac shook his hair out of his eyes, stumbled over a stool, and asked
abruptly,--
"Did you bring any books with you?"
"Four boxes full. They are in the library."
Mac vanished from the room, and Steve, striking an attitude which
displayed his costume effectively, said with an affable smile,--
"We were sorry not to see you last Wednesday. I hope your cold is
better."
"Yes, thank you." And a smile began to dimple about Rose's mouth as she
remembered her retreat under the bed-cover.
Feeling that he had been received with distinguished marks of attention,
Steve strolled away with his top-knot higher than ever, and Prince
Charlie pranced across the room, saying in a free and easy tone,--
"Mamma sent her love and hopes you will be well enough to come over for
a day next week. It must be desperately dull here for a little thing
like you."
"I'm thirteen and a half, though I _do_ look small," cried Rose,
forgetting her shyness in indignation at this insult to her newly
acquired teens.
"Beg pardon, ma'am; never should have guessed it." And Charlie went off
with a laugh, glad to have struck a spark out of his meek cousin.
Geordie and Will came together, two sturdy eleven and twelve year
olders, and, fixing their round blue eyes on Rose, fired off a question
apiece as if it was a shooting match and she the target.
"Did you bring your monkey?"
"No; he is dead."
"Are you going to have a boat?"
"I hope not."
Here the two, with a right-about-face movement, abruptly marched away,
and little Jamie demanded with childish frankness,--
"Did you bring me any thing nice?"
"Yes, lots of candy," answered Rose, whereupon Jamie ascended into her
lap with a sounding kiss and the announcement that he liked her very
much.
This proceeding rather startled Rose, for the other lads looked and
laughed, and in her confusion she said hastily to the young usurper,--
"Did you see the circus go by?"
