"Aunt Myra is a--ahem!--an excellent woman, but it is her hobby to
believe that every one is tottering on the brink of the grave; and, upon
my life, I believe she is offended if people don't fall into it! We will
show her how to make constitutions and turn pale-faced little ghosts
into rosy, hearty girls. That's my business, you know," he added, more
quietly, for his sudden outburst had rather startled Rose.
"I had forgotten you were a doctor. I'm glad of it, for I do want to be
well, only I hope you won't give me much medicine, for I've taken quarts
already, and it does me no good."
As she spoke, Rose pointed to a little table just inside the window, on
which appeared a regiment of bottles.
"Ah, ha! Now we'll see what mischief these blessed women have been at."
And, making a long arm, Dr. Alec set the bottles on the wide railing
before him, examined each carefully, smiled over some, frowned over
others, and said, as he put down the last: "Now I'll show you the best
way to take these messes." And, as quick as a flash, he sent one after
another smashing down into the posy-beds below.
"But Aunt Plenty won't like it; and Aunt Myra will be angry, for she
sent most of them!" cried Rose, half frightened and half pleased at such
energetic measures.
"You are my patient now, and I'll take the responsibility. My way of
giving physic is evidently the best, for you look better already," he
said, laughing so infectiously that Rose followed suit, saying
saucily,--
"If I don't like your medicines any better than those, I shall throw
them into the garden, and then what will you do?"
"When I prescribe such rubbish, I'll give you leave to pitch it
overboard as soon as you like. Now what is the next trouble?"
"I hoped you would forget to ask."
"But how can I help you if I don't know them? Come, let us have No. 3."
"It is very wrong, I suppose, but I do sometimes wish I had not _quite_
so many aunts. They are all very good to me, and I want to please them;
but they are so different, I feel sort of pulled to pieces among them,"
said Rose, trying to express the emotions of a stray chicken with six
hens all clucking over it at once.
Uncle Alec threw back his head and laughed like a boy, for he could
entirely understand how the good ladies had each put in her oar and
tried to paddle her own way, to the great disturbance of the waters and
the entire bewilderment of poor Rose.
"I intend to try a course of uncles now, and see how that suits your
constitution. I'm going to have you all to myself, and no one is to
give a word of advice unless I ask it. There is no other way to keep
order aboard, and I am captain of this little craft, for a time at
least. What comes next?"
