"When? Where?" cried all the boys in great excitement at once.
"Just before you came. At least I thought it was a circus, for I saw a
red and black sort of cart and ever so many little ponies, and--"
She got no farther, for a general shout made her pause suddenly, as
Archie explained the joke by saying in the middle of his laugh,--
"It was our new dog-cart and the Shetland ponies. You'll never hear the
last of your circus, cousin."
"But there were so many, and they went so fast, and the cart was so very
red," began Rose, trying to explain her mistake.
"Come and see them all!" cried the Prince. And before she knew what was
happening she was borne away to the barn and tumultuously introduced to
three shaggy ponies and the gay new dog-cart.
She had never visited these regions before, and had her doubts as to the
propriety of her being there now, but when she suggested that "Auntie
might not like it," there was a general cry of,--
"She told us to amuse you, and we can do it ever so much better out here
than poking round in the house."
"I'm afraid I shall get cold without my sacque," began Rose, who wanted
to stay, but felt rather out of her element.
"No, you won't! We'll fix you," cried the lads, as one clapped his cap
on her head, another tied a rough jacket round her neck by the sleeves,
a third nearly smothered her in a carriage blanket, and a fourth threw
open the door of the old barouche that stood there, saying with a
flourish,--
"Step in, ma'am, and make yourself comfortable while we show you some
fun."
So Rose sat in state enjoying herself very much, for the lads proceeded
to dance a Highland Fling with a spirit and skill that made her clap her
hands and laugh as she had not done for weeks.
"How is that, my lassie?" asked the Prince, coming up all flushed and
breathless when the ballet was over.
"It was splendid! I never went to the theatre but once, and the dancing
was not half so pretty as this. What clever boys you must be!" said
Rose, smiling upon her kinsmen like a little queen upon her subjects.
"Ah, we're a fine lot, and that is only the beginning of our larks. We
haven't got the pipes here or we'd
    'Sing for you, play for you
      A dulcy melody.'"
answered Charlie, looking much elated at her praise.
"I did not know we were Scotch; papa never said any thing about it, or
seemed to care about Scotland, except to have me sing the old ballads,"
said Rose, beginning to feel as if she had left America behind her
somewhere.
"Neither did we till lately. We've been reading Scott's novels, and all
of a sudden we remembered that our grandfather was a Scotchman. So we
hunted up the old stories, got a bagpipe, put on our plaids, and went
in, heart and soul, for the glory of the clan. We've been at it some
time now, and it's great fun. Our people like it, and I think we are a
pretty canny set."
