"I'm delighted to perceive that you have kept yourself so thoroughly
acquainted with English politics."
"Oh, of course," said Harold, impatiently. "I'm aware how things have
been going on in England. I always meant to come back ultimately. I
suppose I know the state of Europe as well as if I'd been stationary at
Little Treby for the last fifteen years. If a man goes to the East,
people seem to think he gets turned into something like the one-eyed
calender in the 'Arabian Nights!'"
"Yet I should think there are some things which people who have been
stationary at Little Treby could tell you, Harold," said Mrs. Transome.
"It did not signify about your holding Radical opinions at Smyrna; but
you seem not to imagine how your putting up as a Radical will affect
your position here, and the position of your family. No one will visit
you. And then--the sort of people who will support you! You really have
no idea what an impression it conveys when you say you are a Radical.
There are none of our equals who will not feel that you have disgraced
yourself."
"Pooh!" said Harold, rising and walking along the room.
But Mrs. Transome went on with growing anger in her voice--"It seems to
me that a man owes something to his birth and station, and has no right
to take up this notion or other, just as it suits his fancy; still less
to work at the overthrow of his class. That was what every one said of
Lord Grey, and my family at least is as good as Lord Grey's. You have
wealth now, and might distinguish yourself in the county; and if you had
been true to your colors as a gentleman, you would have had all the
greater opportunity, because the times are so bad. The Debarrys and Lord
Wyvern would have set all the more store by you. For my part, I can't
conceive what good you propose to yourself. I only entreat you to think
again before you take any decided step."
"Mother," said Harold, not angrily or with any raising of his voice, but
in a quick, impatient manner, as if the scene must be got through as
quickly as possible; "it is natural that you should think in this way.
Women, very properly, don't change their views, but keep to the notions
in which they have been brought up. It doesn't signify what they
think--they are not called upon to judge or to act. You must leave me to
take my own course in these matters, which properly belong to men.
Beyond that, I will gratify any wish you may choose to mention. You
shall have a new carriage and a pair of bays all to yourself; you shall
have the house done up in first-rate style, and I am not thinking of
marrying. But let us understand that there shall be no further collision
between us on subjects on which I must be master of my own actions."
