"Well done, my boy! By George, you'll be a speaker! But I say, Harold, I
hope you've got a little Latin left. This young Debarry is a tremendous
fellow at the classics, and walks on stilts to any length. He's one of
the new Conservatives. Old Sir Maximus doesn't understand him at all."
"That won't do at the hustings," said Harold. "He'll get knocked off his
stilts pretty quickly there."
"Bless me! it's astonishing how well you're up in the affairs of the
country, my boy. But rub up a few quotations--'_Quod turpe bonis decebat
Crispinum_'--and that sort of thing--just to show Debarry what you could
do if you liked. But you want to ride on?"
"Yes; I have an appointment at Treby. Good-bye."
"He's a cleverish chap," muttered the vicar, as Harold rode away. "When
he's had plenty of English exercise, and brought out his knuckle a bit,
he'll be a Lingon again as he used to be. I must go and see how Arabella
takes his being a Radical. It's a little awkward; but a clergyman must
keep peace in a family. Confound it! I'm not bound to love Toryism
better than my own flesh and blood, and the manor I shoot over. That's a
heathenish, Brutus-like sort of thing, as if Providence couldn't take
care of the country without my quarrelling with my own sister's son!"
CHAPTER III.
    'Twas town, yet country too: you felt the warmth
    Of clustering houses in the wintry time:
    Supped with a friend, and went by lantern home.
    Yet from your chamber window you could hear
    The tiny bleat of new-yeaned lambs, or see
    The children bend beside the hedgerow banks
    To pluck the primroses.
Treby Magna, on which the Reform Bill had thrust the new honor of being
a polling-place, had been, at the beginning of the century, quite a
typical old market-town, lying in pleasant sleepiness among green
pastures, with a rush-fringed river meandering through them. Its
principal street had various handsome and tall-windowed brick houses
with walled gardens behind them; and at the end, where it widened into
the market-place, there was the cheerful rough-stuccoed front of that
excellent inn, the Marquis of Granby, where the farmers put up their
gigs, not only on fair and market days, but on exceptional Sundays when
they came to church. And the church was one of those fine old English
structures worth travelling to see, standing in a broad churchyard with
a line of solemn yew-trees beside it, and lifting a majestic tower and
spire far above the red-and-purple roofs of the town. It was not large
enough to hold all the parishioners of a parish which stretched over
distant villages and hamlets; but then they were never so unreasonable
as to wish to be all in at once, and had never complained that the space
of a large side-chapel was taken up by the tombs of the Debarrys, and
shut in by a handsome iron screen. For when the black Benedictines
ceased to pray and chant in this church, when the Blessed Virgin and St.
Gregory were expelled, the Debarrys, as lords of the manor, naturally
came next to Providence and took the place of the saints. Long before
that time, indeed, there had been a Sir Maximus Debarry who had been at
the fortifying of the old castle, which now stood in ruins in the midst
of the green pastures, and with its sheltering wall toward the north
made an excellent strawyard for the pigs of Wace & Co., brewers of the
celebrated Treby beer. Wace & Co. did not stand alone in the town as
prosperous traders on a large scale, to say nothing of those who had
retired from business; and in no country town of the same small size as
Treby was there a larger proportion of families who had handsome sets of
china without handles, hereditary punch-bowls, and large silver ladles
with a Queen Anne's guinea in the centre. Such people naturally took tea
and supped together frequently; and as there was no professional man or
tradesman in Treby who was not connected by business, if not by blood,
with the farmers of the district, the richer sort of these were much
invited, and gave invitations in their turn. They played at whist, ate
and drank generously, praised Mr. Pitt and the war as keeping up prices
and religion, and were very humorous about each other's property, having
much the same coy pleasure in allusions to their secret ability to
purchase, as blushing lasses sometimes have in jokes about their secret
preferences. The rector was always of the Debarry family, associated
only with county people, and was much respected for his affability; a
clergyman who would have taken tea with the townspeople would have given
a dangerous shock to the mind of a Treby churchman.
