Harold did not feel sure that his uncle would thoroughly retain this
satisfactory thread of argument in the uninspired hours of the morning;
but the old gentleman was sure to take the facts easily in the end, and
there was no fear of family coolness or quarrelling on this side. Harold
was glad of it. He was not to be turned aside from any course he had
chosen; but he disliked all quarrelling as an unpleasant expenditure of
energy that could have no good practical result. He was at once active
and luxurious; fond of mastery, and good-natured enough to wish that
every one about him should like his mastery; not caring greatly to know
other people's thoughts, and ready to despise them as blockheads if
their thoughts differed from his, and yet solicitous that they should
have no colorable reason for slight thoughts about _him_. The blockheads
must be forced to respect him. Hence, in proportion as he foresaw his
equals in the neighborhood would be indignant with him for his political
choice, he cared keenly about making a good figure before them in every
other way. His conduct as a landholder was to be judicious, his
establishment was to be kept up generously, his imbecile father treated
with careful regard, his family relations entirely without scandal. He
knew that affairs had been unpleasant in his youth--that there had been
ugly lawsuits--and that his scapegrace brother Durfey had helped to
lower still farther the depressed condition of the family. All this must
be retrieved, now that events had made Harold the head of the Transome
name.
Jermyn must be used for the election, and after that if he must be got
rid of, it would be well to shake him loose quietly; his uncle was
probably right on both these points. But Harold's expectation that he
should want to get rid of Jermyn was founded on other reasons than his
scented handkerchief and his charity-school Latin.
If the lawyer had been presuming on Mrs. Transome's ignorance as a
woman, and on the stupid rakishness of the original heir, the new heir
would prove to him that he had calculated rashly. Otherwise, Harold had
no prejudice against him. In his boyhood and youth he had seen Jermyn
frequenting Transome Court, but had regarded him with that total
indifference with which youngsters are apt to view those who neither
deny them pleasure nor give them any. Jermyn used to smile at him, and
speak to him affably; but Harold, half proud, half shy, got away from
such patronage as soon as possible; he knew Jermyn was a man of
business; his father, his uncle, and Sir Maximus Debarry did not regard
him as a gentleman and their equal. He had known no evil of the man; but
he saw now that if he were really a covetous upstart, there had been a
temptation for him in the management of the Transome affairs; and it was
clear that the estate was in a bad condition.
