"And you will put the crown to the mortifications of my life, Harold. I
don't know who would be a mother if she could foresee what a slight
thing she will be to her son when she is old."
Mrs. Transome here walked out of the room by the nearest way--the glass
door open toward the terrace. Mr. Jermyn had risen too, and his hands
were on the back of his chair. He looked quite impassive: it was not the
first time he had seen Mrs. Transome angry; but now, for the first time,
he thought the outburst of her temper would be useful to him. She, poor
woman, knew quite well that she had been unwise, and that she had been
making herself disagreeable to Harold to no purpose. But half the
sorrows of women would be averted if they could repress the speech they
know to be useless--nay, the speech they have resolved not to utter.
Harold continued his walking a moment longer, and then said to Jermyn--
"You smoke?"
"No, I always defer to the ladies. Mrs. Jermyn is peculiarly sensitive
in such matters, and doesn't like tobacco."
Harold, who, underneath all the tendencies which had made him a Liberal,
had intense personal pride, thought, "Confound the fellow--with his Mrs.
Jermyn! Does he think we are on a footing for me to know anything about
his wife?"
"Well, I took my hookah before breakfast," he said aloud, "so, if you
like, we'll go into the library. My father never gets up till midday, I
find."
"Sit down, sit down," said Harold, as they entered the handsome,
spacious library. But he himself continued to stand before a map of the
county which he had opened from a series of rollers occupying a
compartment among the bookshelves. "The first question, Mr. Jermyn, now
you know my intentions, is, whether you will undertake to be my agent in
this election, and help me through? There's no time to be lost, and I
don't want to lose my chance, as I may not have another for seven years.
I understand," he went on, flashing a look straight at Jermyn, "that you
have not taken any conspicuous course in politics, and I know that
Labron is agent for the Debarrys."
"Oh--a--my dear sir--a man necessarily has his political convictions,
but of what use is it for a professional man--a--of some education, to
talk of them in a little country town? There really is no comprehension
of public questions in such places. Party feeling, indeed, was quite
asleep here before the agitation about the Catholic Relief Bill. It is
true that I concurred with our incumbent in getting up a petition
against the Reform Bill, but I did not state my reasons. The weak points
in that Bill are--a--too palpable, and I fancy you and I should not
differ much on that head. The fact is, when I knew that you were to come
back to us, I kept myself in reserve, though I was much pressed by the
friends of Sir James Clement, the Ministerial candidate, who is----"
