"No, Denner; I am going down immediately."
As Mrs. Transome descended the stone staircase in her old black velvet
and point, her appearance justified Denner's personal compliment. She
had that high-born, imperious air which would have marked her as an
object of hatred and reviling by a revolutionary mob. Her person was too
typical of social distinctions to be passed by with indifference by any
one: it would have fitted an empress in her own right, who had had to
rule in spite of faction, to dare the violation of treaties and dread
retributive invasions, to grasp after new territories, to be defiant in
desperate circumstances, and to feel a woman's hunger of the heart
forever unsatisfied. Yet Mrs. Transome's cares and occupations had not
been at all of an imperial sort. For thirty years she had led the
monotonous, narrowing life which used to be the lot of our poorer
gentry; who never went to town, and were probably not on speaking terms
with two out of the five families whose parks lay within the distance of
a drive. When she was young she had been thought wonderfully clever and
accomplished, and had been rather ambitious of intellectual
superiority--had secretly picked out for private reading the higher
parts of dangerous French authors--and in company had been able to talk
of Mr. Burke's style, or of Chateaubriand's eloquence--had laughed at
the Lyrical Ballads, and admired Mr. Southey's Thalaba. She always
thought that the dangerous French writers were wicked and that her
reading of them was a sin; but many sinful things were highly agreeable
to her, and many things which she did not doubt to be good and true were
dull and meaningless. She found ridicule of Biblical characters very
amusing, and she was interested in stories of illicit passion; but she
believed all the while that truth and safety lay in due attendance on
prayers and sermons, in the admirable doctrines and ritual of the Church
of England, equally remote from Puritanism and Popery; in fact, in such
a view of this world and the next as would preserve the existing
arrangements of English society quite unshaken, keeping down the
obtrusiveness of the vulgar and the discontent of the poor. The history
of the Jews, she knew, ought to be preferred to any profane history; the
Pagans, of course, were vicious, and their religions quite nonsensical,
considered as religions--but classical learning came from the Pagans;
the Greeks were famous for sculpture; the Italians for painting; the
middle ages were dark and Papistical; but now Christianity went hand in
hand with civilization, and the providential government of the world,
though a little confused and entangled in foreign countries, in our
favored land was clearly seen to be carried forward on Tory and Church
of England principles, sustained by the succession of the House of
Brunswick, and by sound English divines. For Miss Lingon had had a
superior governess, who held that a woman should be able to write a good
letter, and to express herself with propriety on general subjects. And
it is astonishing how effective this education appeared in a handsome
girl, who sat supremely well on horseback, sang and played a little,
painted small figures in water-colors, had a naughty sparkle in her eyes
when she made a daring quotation, and an air of serious dignity when she
recited something from her store of correct opinions. But however such a
stock of ideas may be made to tell in elegant society, and during a few
seasons in town, no amount of bloom and beauty can make them a perennial
source of interest in things not personal; and the notion that what is
true and, in general, good for mankind, is stupid and drug-like, is not
a safe theoretic basis in circumstances of temptation and difficulty.
Mrs. Transome had been in her bloom before this century began, and in
the long painful years since then, what she had once regarded as her
knowledge and accomplishments had become as valueless as old-fashioned
stucco ornaments, of which the substance was never worth anything, while
the form is no longer to the taste of any living mortal. Crosses,
mortifications, money-cares, conscious blame-worthiness, had changed the
aspect of the world for her; there was anxiety in the morning sunlight;
there was unkind triumph or disapproving pity in the glances of greeting
neighbors; there was advancing age, and a contracting prospect in the
changing seasons as they came and went. And what could then sweeten the
days to a hungry, much-exacting self like Mrs. Transome's? Under
protracted ill every living creature will find something that makes a
comparative ease, and even when life seems woven of pain, will convert
the fainter pang into a desire. Mrs. Transome, whose imperious will had
availed little to ward off the great evils of her life, found the opiate
for her discontent in the exertion of her will about smaller things. She
was not cruel, and could not enjoy thoroughly what she called the old
woman's pleasure of tormenting; but she liked every little sign of power
her lot had left her. She liked that a tenant should stand bareheaded
below her as she sat on horseback. She liked to insist that work done
without her orders should be undone from beginning to end. She liked to
be courtesied and bowed to by all the congregation as she walked up the
little barn of a church. She liked to change a laborer's medicine
fetched from the doctor, and substitute a prescription of her own. If
she had only been more haggard and less majestic, those who had glimpses
of her outward life might have said she was a tyrannical, griping
harridan, with a tongue like a razor. No one said exactly that; but they
never said anything like the full truth about her, or divined what was
hidden under that outward life--a woman's keen sensibility and dread,
which lay screened behind all her petty habits and narrow notions, as
some quivering thing with eyes and throbbing heart may lie crouching
behind withered rubbish. The sensibility and dread had palpitated all
the faster in the prospect of her son's return; and now that she had
seen him, she said to herself, in her bitter way, "It is a lucky eel
that escapes skinning. The best happiness I shall ever know, will be to
escape the worst misery."
