"Help me to bear my honey home, and you can stay with us tonight,"
he kindly said.
So Thistle gladly went with him, and soon they came to a pleasant
garden, where among the fairest flowers stood the hive, covered with
vines and overhung with blossoming trees.  Glow-worms stood at the
door to light them home, and as they passed in, the Fairy thought how
charming it must be to dwell in such a lovely place.  The floor of wax
was pure and white as marble, while the walls were formed of golden
honey-comb, and the air was fragrant with the breath of flowers.
"You cannot see our Queen to-night," said the little bee, "but
I will show you to a bed where you can rest."
And he led the tired Fairy to a little cell, where on a bed of
flower-leaves he folded his wings and fell asleep.
As the first ray of sunlight stole in, he was awakened by sweet music.
It was the morning song of the bees.
  "Awake! awake! for the earliest gleam
     Of golden sunlight shines
   On the rippling waves, that brightly flow
     Beneath the flowering vines.
   Awake! awake! for the low, sweet chant
     Of the wild-birds' morning hymn
   Comes floating by on the fragrant air,
     Through the forest cool and dim;
         Then spread each wing,
         And work, and sing,
   Through the long, bright sunny hours;
         O'er the pleasant earth
         We journey forth,
   For a day among the flowers.
  "Awake! awake! for the summer wind
     Hath bidden the blossoms unclose,
   Hath opened the violet's soft blue eye,
     And wakened the sleeping rose.
   And lightly they wave on their slender stems
     Fragrant, and fresh, and fair,
   Waiting for us, as we singing come
     To gather our honey-dew there.
         Then spread each wing,
         And work, and sing,
   Through the long, bright sunny hours;
         O'er the pleasant earth
         We journey forth,
   For a day among the flowers!"
Soon his friend came to bid him rise, as the Queen desired to speak
with him.  So, with his purple mantle thrown gracefully over his
shoulder, and his little cap held respectfully in his hand, he
followed Nimble-Wing to the great hall, where the Queen was being
served by her little pages.  Some bore her fresh dew and honey, some
fanned her with fragrant flower-leaves, while others scattered the
sweetest perfumes on the air.
"Little Fairy," said the Queen, "you are welcome to my palace; and
we will gladly have you stay with us, if you will obey our laws.
We do not spend the pleasant summer days in idleness and pleasure, but
each one labors for the happiness and good of all.  If our home is
beautiful, we have made it so by industry; and here, as one large,
loving family, we dwell; no sorrow, care, or discord can enter in,
while all obey the voice of her who seeks to be a wise and gentle
Queen to them.  If you will stay with us, we will teach you many
things.  Order, patience, industry, who can teach so well as they
who are the emblems of these virtues?
