Soon the sky grew dark, and heavy drops began to fall.  Then Thistle
hastened to the lily, for her cup was deep, and the white leaves
fell like curtains over the fragrant bed; he was a dainty little Elf,
and could not sleep among the clovers and bright buttercups.  But
when he asked the flower to unfold her leaves and take him in, she
turned her pale, soft face away, and answered sadly, "I must shield my
little drooping sisters whom you have harmed, and cannot let you in."
Then Thistledown was very angry, and turned to find shelter among the
stately roses; but they showed their sharp thorns, and, while their
rosy faces glowed with anger, told him to begone, or they would repay
him for the wrong he had done their gentle kindred.
He would have stayed to harm them, but the rain fell fast, and he
hurried away, saying, "The tulips will take me in, for I have praised
their beauty, and they are vain and foolish flowers."
But when he came, all wet and cold, praying for shelter among their
thick leaves, they only laughed and said scornfully, "We know you,
and will not let you in, for you are false and cruel, and will
only bring us sorrow.  You need not come to us for another mantle,
when the rain has spoilt your fine one; and do not stay here, or
we will do you harm."
Then they waved their broad leaves stormily, and scattered the heavy
drops on his dripping garments.
"Now must I go to the humble daisies and blue violets," said Thistle,
"they will be glad to let in so fine a Fairy, and I shall die in
this cold wind and rain."
So away he flew, as fast as his heavy wings would bear him, to the
daisies; but they nodded their heads wisely, and closed their leaves
yet closer, saying sharply,--
"Go away with yourself, and do not imagine we will open our leaves
to you, and spoil our seeds by letting in the rain.  It serves you
rightly; to gain our love and confidence, and repay it by such
cruelty!  You will find no shelter here for one whose careless hand
wounded our little friend Violet, and broke the truest heart that ever
beat in a flower's breast.  We are very angry with you, wicked Fairy;
go away and hide yourself."
"Ah," cried the shivering Elf, "where can I find shelter? I will go
to the violets:  they will forgive and take me in."
But the daisies had spoken truly; the gentle little flower was dead,
and her blue-eyed sisters were weeping bitterly over her faded leaves.
"Now I have no friends," sighed poor Thistledown, "and must die of
cold.  Ah, if I had but minded Lily-Bell, I might now be dreaming
beneath some flower's leaves."
"Others can forgive and love, beside Lily-Bell and Violet," said
a faint, sweet voice; "I have no little bud to shelter now, and you
can enter here."  It was the rose mother that spoke, and Thistle saw
how pale the bright leaves had grown, and how the slender stem was
bowed.  Grieved, ashamed, and wondering at the flower's forgiving
words, he laid his weary head on the bosom he had filled with sorrow,
and the fragrant leaves were folded carefully about him.
