Then a faint voice whispered, "Little Rose-Leaf, come quickly, or
I cannot thank you as I ought for all your loving care of me."
So they passed to the bed beside the discontented bee, and here upon
the softest down lay the dove, whose gentle eyes looked gratefully
upon the Fairy, as she knelt beside the little couch, smoothed the
soft white bosom, folded her arms about it and wept sorrowing tears,
while the bird still whispered its gratitude and love.
"Dear Fairy, the fairest flowers have cheered me with their sweet
breath, fresh dew and fragrant leaves have been ever ready for me,
gentle hands to tend, kindly hearts to love; and for this I can only
thank you and say farewell."
Then the quivering wings were still, and the patient little dove
was dead; but the bee murmured no longer, and the dew from the flowers
fell like tears around the quiet bed.
Sadly Rose-Leaf led Eva away, saying, "Lily-Bosom shall have a grave
tonight beneath our fairest blossoms, and you shall see that
gentleness and love are prized far above gold or beauty, here in
Fairy-Land.  Come now to the Flower Palace, and see the Fairy Court."
Beneath green arches, bright with birds and flowers, beside singing
waves, went Eva into a lofty hall.  The roof of pure white lilies
rested on pillars of green clustering vines, while many-colored
blossoms threw their bright shadows on the walls, as they danced below
in the deep green moss, and their low, sweet voices sounded softly
through the sunlit palace, while the rustling leaves kept time.
Beside the throne stood Eva, and watched the lovely forms around her,
as they stood, each little band in its own color, with glistening
wings, and flower wands.
Suddenly the music grew louder and sweeter, and the Fairies knelt,
and bowed their heads, as on through the crowd of loving subjects
came the Queen, while the air was filled with gay voices singing
to welcome her.
She placed the child beside her, saying, "Little Eva, you shall see
now how the flowers on your great earth bloom so brightly.  A band
of loving little gardeners go daily forth from Fairy-Land, to tend
and watch them, that no harm may befall the gentle spirits that dwell
beneath their leaves.  This is never known, for like all good it is
unseen by mortal eyes, and unto only pure hearts like yours do we
make known our secret.  The humblest flower that grows is visited by
our messengers, and often blooms in fragrant beauty unknown, unloved
by all save Fairy friends, who seek to fill the spirits with all sweet
and gentle virtues, that they may not be useless on the earth; for the
noblest mortals stoop to learn of flowers.  Now, Eglantine, what have
you to tell us of your rosy namesakes on the earth?"
From a group of Elves, whose rose-wreathed wands showed the flower
they loved, came one bearing a tiny urn, and, answering the Queen,
she said,--
