Then they flew away to the gardens, and soon, high up among the
tree-tops, or under the broad leaves, sat the Elves in little groups,
taking their breakfast of fruit and pure fresh dew; while the
bright-winged birds came fearlessly among them, pecking the same
ripe berries, and dipping their little beaks in the same flower-cups,
and the Fairies folded their arms lovingly about them, smoothed their
soft bosoms, and gayly sang to them.
"Now, little Eva," said they, "you will see that Fairies are not
idle, wilful Spirits, as mortals believe.  Come, we will show you
what we do."
They led her to a lovely room, through whose walls of deep green
leaves the light stole softly in.  Here lay many wounded insects,
and harmless little creatures, whom cruel hands had hurt; and pale,
drooping flowers grew beside urns of healing herbs, from whose fresh
leaves came a faint, sweet perfume.
Eva wondered, but silently followed her guide, little Rose-Leaf,
who with tender words passed among the delicate blossoms,
pouring dew on their feeble roots, cheering them with her loving words
and happy smile.
Then she went to the insects; first to a little fly who lay in a
flower-leaf cradle.
"Do you suffer much, dear Gauzy-Wing?" asked the Fairy.  "I will
bind up your poor little leg, and Zephyr shall rock you to sleep."
So she folded the cool leaves tenderly about the poor fly, bathed his
wings, and brought him refreshing drink, while he hummed his thanks,
and forgot his pain, as Zephyr softly sung and fanned him with her
waving wings.
They passed on, and Eva saw beside each bed a Fairy, who with gentle
hands and loving words soothed the suffering insects.  At length
they stopped beside a bee, who lay among sweet honeysuckle flowers,
in a cool, still place, where the summer wind blew in, and the green
leaves rustled pleasantly.  Yet he seemed to find no rest, and
murmured of the pain he was doomed to bear.  "Why must I lie here,
while my kindred are out in the pleasant fields, enjoying the sunlight
and the fresh air, and cruel hands have doomed me to this dark place
and bitter pain when I have done no wrong?  Uncared for and forgotten,
I must stay here among these poor things who think only of themselves.
Come here, Rose-Leaf, and bind up my wounds, for I am far more useful
than idle bird or fly."
Then said the Fairy, while she bathed the broken wing,--
"Love-Blossom, you should not murmur.  We may find happiness in
seeking to be patient even while we suffer.  You are not forgotten or
uncared for, but others need our care more than you, and to those
who take cheerfully the pain and sorrow sent, do we most gladly give
our help.  You need not be idle, even though lying here in darkness
and sorrow; you can be taking from your heart all sad and discontented
feelings, and if love and patience blossom there, you will be better
for the lonely hours spent here.  Look on the bed beside you; this
little dove has suffered far greater pain than you, and all our care
can never ease it; yet through the long days he hath lain here, not an
unkind word or a repining sigh hath he uttered.  Ah, Love-Blossom,
the gentle bird can teach a lesson you will be wiser and better for."
