Everybody that goes into this church, and reads what is to be read there,
will be told that the body of the church was built by the famous William
of Wickham; whose monument, intimating his fame, lies in the middle of
that part which was built at his expense.
He was a courtier before a bishop; and, though he had no great share of
learning, he was a great promoter of it, and a lover of learned men.  His
natural genius was much beyond his acquired parts, and his skill in
politics beyond his ecclesiastic knowledge.  He is said to have put his
master, King Edward III., to whom he was Secretary of State, upon the two
great projects which made his reign so glorious, viz.:--First, upon
setting up his claim to the crown of France, and pushing that claim by
force of arms, which brought on the war with France, in which that prince
was three times victorious in battle. (2)  Upon setting up, or
instituting the Order of the Garter; in which he (being before that made
Bishop of Winchester) obtained the honour for the Bishops of Winchester
of being always prelates of the Order, as an appendix to the bishopric;
and he himself was the first prelate of the Order, and the ensigns of
that honour are joined with his episcopal ornaments in the robing of his
effigy on the monument above.
To the honour of this bishop, there are other foundations of his, as much
to his fame as that of this church, of which I shall speak in their
order; but particularly the college in this city, which is a noble
foundation indeed.  The building consists of two large courts, in which
are the lodgings for the masters and scholars, and in the centre a very
noble chapel; beyond that, in the second court, are the schools, with a
large cloister beyond them, and some enclosures laid open for the
diversion of the scholars.  There also is a great hall, where the
scholars dine.  The funds for the support of this college are very
considerable; the masters live in a very good figure, and their
maintenance is sufficient to support it.  They have all separate
dwellings in the house, and all possible conveniences appointed them.
The scholars have exhibitions at a certain time of continuance here, if
they please to study in the new college at Oxford, built by the same
noble benefactor, of which I shall speak in its order.
The clergy here live at large, and very handsomely, in the Close
belonging to the cathedral; where, besides the bishop's palace mentioned
above, are very good houses, and very handsomely built, for the
prebendaries, canons, and other dignitaries of this church.  The Deanery
is a very pleasant dwelling, the gardens very large, and the river
running through them; but the floods in winter sometimes incommode the
gardens very much.
This school has fully answered the end of the founder, who, though he was
no great scholar, resolved to erect a house for the making the ages to
come more learned than those that went before; and it has, I say, fully
answered the end, for many learned and great men have been raised here,
some of whom we shall have occasion to mention as we go on.
