Farewell, dear. Don't write unless you have a real desire to gossip
with me a little about yourself and our mutual friends. You know I
always like to have news of you, but I shall not think it unkind--I
shall only think you have other things to do--if you are silent.
[Sidenote: Journal, 1867.]
_July 29._--We went to Dover this evening as the start on a journey
into Germany (North).
_Oct. 1._--We returned home after revisiting the scenes of cherished
memories--Ilmenau, Dresden, and Berlin. Of new places we have seen
Wetzlar, Cassel, Eisenach, and Hanover. At Ilmenau I wrote Fedalma's
soliloquy after her scene with Silva, and the following dialogue
between her and Juan. At Dresden I rewrote the whole scene between her
and Zarca.
_Oct. 9._--Reading "Los Judios en Espana," Percy's "Reliques," "Isis,"
occasionally aloud.
_Oct. 10._--Reading the "Iliad," Book III. Finished "Los Judios en
Espana," a wretchedly poor book.
_Oct. 11._--Began again Prescott's "Ferdinand and Isabella."
_Oct. 19._--George returned last evening from a walking expedition in
Surrey with Mr. Spencer.
     This entry is an interesting one to me, as it fixes the date
     of the first acquaintance with my family. Mr. Herbert Spencer
     was an old friend of ours, and in the course of their walk he
     and Mr. Lewes happened to pass through Weybridge, where my
     mother at that time lived. They came to dinner. Mr. Lewes,
     with his wonderful social powers, charmed all, and they
     passed a delightful evening. I was myself in America at the
     time, where I was in business as a banker at New York. My
     eldest sister had just then published a little volume of
     poems,[1] which was kindly received by the press. On the
     invitation of Mr. Lewes she went shortly afterwards to see
     George Eliot, then in the zenith of her fame; nor did she
     ever forget the affectionate manner in which the great author
     greeted her. This was the beginning of a close friendship
     between the families, which lasted, and increased in
     intimacy, to the end. Mr. Spencer, in writing to tell me that
     it was he who first made Mr. Lewes acquainted with George
     Eliot, adds, "You will perhaps be struck by the curious
     coincidence that it was also by me that Lewes was introduced
     to your family at Weybridge and remoter issues entailed."
[Sidenote: Letter to Miss Sara Hennell, 20th Oct. 1867.]
Before I got your letter I was about to write to you and direct your
attention to an article in the forthcoming (October) number of the
_Quarterly Review_, on the Talmud. You really must go out of your way
to read it. It is written by one of the greatest Oriental scholars,
the man among living men who probably knows the most about the Talmud;
and you will appreciate the pregnancy of the article. There are also
beautiful, soul-cheering things selected for quotation.
[Sidenote: Journal, 1867.]
_Oct. 31._--I have now inserted all that I think of for the first part
of the "Spanish Gypsy." On Monday I wrote three new Lyrics. I have
also rewritten the first scenes in the gypsy camp, to the end of the
dialogue between Juan and Fedalma. But I have determined to make the
commencement of the second part continue the picture of what goes
forward in Bedmar.
