Manders. You deserve the deepest pity, Mrs. Alving. It is my duty to
say an earnest word to you. It is no longer your businessman and
adviser, no longer your old friend and your dead husband's old friend,
that stands before you now. It is your priest that stands before you,
just as he did once at the most critical moment of your life.
Mrs. Alving. And what is it that my priest has to say to me?
Manders. First of all I must stir your memory. The moment is well
chosen. Tomorrow is the tenth anniversary of your husband's death;
tomorrow the memorial to the departed will be unveiled; tomorrow I
shall speak to the whole assembly that will be met together, But today
I want to speak to you alone.
Mrs. Alving, Very well, Mr. Manders, speak!
Manders. Have you forgotten that after barely a year of married life
you were standing at the very edge of a precipice?--that you forsook
your house and home? that you ran away from your husband--yes, Mrs.
Alving, ran away, ran away-=and refused to return to him in spite of
his requests and entreaties?
Mrs. Alving. Have you forgotten how unspeakably unhappy I was during
that first year?
Manders. To crave for happiness in this world is simply to be possessed
by a spirit of revolt. What right have we to happiness? No! we must do
our duty, Mrs. Alving. And your duty was to cleave to the man you had
chosen and to whom you were bound by a sacred bond.
Mrs. Alving. You know quite well what sort of a life my husband was
living at that time--what excesses he was guilty of.
Menders. I know only too well what rumour used to say of him; and I
should be the last person to approve of his conduct as a young man,
supposing that rumour spoke the truth. But it is not a wife's part to
be her husband's judge. You should have considered it your bounden duty
humbly to have borne the cross that a higher will had laid upon you.
But, instead of that, you rebelliously cast off your cross, you
deserted the man whose stumbling footsteps you should have supported,
you did what was bound to imperil your good name and reputation, and
came very near to imperilling the reputation of others into the bargain.
Mrs. Alving. Of others? Of one other, you mean.
Manders. It was the height of imprudence, your seeking refuge with me.
Mrs. Alving. With our priest? With our intimate friend?
Manders. All the more on that account; you should thank God that I
possessed the necessary strength of mind--that I was able to turn you
from your outrageous intention, and that it was vouchsafed to me to
succeed in leading you back into the path of duty, and back to your
lawful husband.
Mrs. Alving. Yes, Mr. Manders, that certainly was your doing.
Manders. I was but the humble instrument of a higher power. And is it
not true that my having been able to bring you again under the yoke of
duty and obedience sowed the seeds of a rich blessing on all the rest
of your life? Did things not turn out as I foretold to you? Did not
your husband turn from straying in the wrong path, as a man should? Did
he not, after that, live a life of love and good report with you all
his days? Did he not become a benefactor to the neighbourhood? Did he
not so raise you up to his level, so that by degree you became his
fellow-worker in all his undertakings--and a noble fellow-worker, too.
I know, Mrs. Alving; that praise I will give you. But now I come to the
second serious false step in your life.
