Like the general analogy of the arts and the virtues, the analogy
of disease and injustice, or of medicine and justice, is certainly
imperfect. But ideas must be given through something; the nature of the
mind which is unseen can only be represented under figures derived from
visible objects. If these figures are suggestive of some new aspect
under which the mind may be considered, we cannot find fault with them
for not exactly coinciding with the ideas represented. They partake
of the imperfect nature of language, and must not be construed in too
strict a manner. That Plato sometimes reasons from them as if they were
not figures but realities, is due to the defective logical analysis of
his age.
Nor does he distinguish between the suffering which improves and the
suffering which only punishes and deters. He applies to the sphere of
ethics a conception of punishment which is really derived from criminal
law. He does not see that such punishment is only negative, and supplies
no principle of moral growth or development. He is not far off the
higher notion of an education of man to be begun in this world, and to
be continued in other stages of existence, which is further developed
in the Republic. And Christian thinkers, who have ventured out of the
beaten track in their meditations on the 'last things,' have found a ray
of light in his writings. But he has not explained how or in what way
punishment is to contribute to the improvement of mankind. He has not
followed out the principle which he affirms in the Republic, that 'God
is the author of evil only with a view to good,' and that 'they were
the better for being punished.' Still his doctrine of a future state of
rewards and punishments may be compared favourably with that perversion
of Christian doctrine which makes the everlasting punishment of human
beings depend on a brief moment of time, or even on the accident of
an accident. And he has escaped the difficulty which has often beset
divines, respecting the future destiny of the meaner sort of men
(Thersites and the like), who are neither very good nor very bad, by not
counting them worthy of eternal damnation.
We do Plato violence in pressing his figures of speech or chains of
argument; and not less so in asking questions which were beyond the
horizon of his vision, or did not come within the scope of his design.
The main purpose of the Gorgias is not to answer questions about a
future world, but to place in antagonism the true and false life, and
to contrast the judgments and opinions of men with judgment according
to the truth. Plato may be accused of representing a superhuman or
transcendental virtue in the description of the just man in the Gorgias,
or in the companion portrait of the philosopher in the Theaetetus; and
at the same time may be thought to be condemning a state of the world
which always has existed and always will exist among men. But
such ideals act powerfully on the imagination of mankind. And such
condemnations are not mere paradoxes of philosophers, but the natural
rebellion of the higher sense of right in man against the ordinary
conditions of human life. The greatest statesmen have fallen very far
short of the political ideal, and are therefore justly involved in the
general condemnation.
