   Hor. My Lord, I thinke I saw him yesternight
   Ham. Saw? Who?
  Hor. My Lord, the King your Father
   Ham. The King my Father?
  Hor. Season your admiration for a while
With an attent eare; till I may deliuer
Vpon the witnesse of these Gentlemen,
This maruell to you
   Ham. For Heauens loue let me heare
   Hor. Two nights together, had these Gentlemen
(Marcellus and Barnardo) on their Watch
In the dead wast and middle of the night
Beene thus encountred. A figure like your Father,
Arm'd at all points exactly, Cap a Pe,
Appeares before them, and with sollemne march
Goes slow and stately: By them thrice he walkt,
By their opprest and feare-surprized eyes,
Within his Truncheons length; whilst they bestil'd
Almost to Ielly with the Act of feare,
Stand dumbe and speake not to him. This to me
In dreadfull secrecie impart they did,
And I with them the third Night kept the Watch,
Whereas they had deliuer'd both in time,
Forme of the thing; each word made true and good,
The Apparition comes. I knew your Father:
These hands are not more like
   Ham. But where was this?
  Mar. My Lord vpon the platforme where we watcht
   Ham. Did you not speake to it?
  Hor. My Lord, I did;
But answere made it none: yet once me thought
It lifted vp it head, and did addresse
It selfe to motion, like as it would speake:
But euen then, the Morning Cocke crew lowd;
And at the sound it shrunke in hast away,
And vanisht from our sight
   Ham. Tis very strange
   Hor. As I doe liue my honourd Lord 'tis true;
And we did thinke it writ downe in our duty
To let you know of it
   Ham. Indeed, indeed Sirs; but this troubles me.
Hold you the watch to Night?
  Both. We doe my Lord
   Ham. Arm'd, say you?
  Both. Arm'd, my Lord
   Ham. From top to toe?
  Both. My Lord, from head to foote
   Ham. Then saw you not his face?
  Hor. O yes, my Lord, he wore his Beauer vp
   Ham. What, lookt he frowningly?
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow then in anger
   Ham. Pale, or red?
  Hor. Nay very pale
   Ham. And fixt his eyes vpon you?
  Hor. Most constantly
   Ham. I would I had beene there
   Hor. It would haue much amaz'd you
   Ham. Very like, very like: staid it long?
  Hor. While one with moderate hast might tell a hundred
   All. Longer, longer
   Hor. Not when I saw't
   Ham. His Beard was grisly? no
   Hor. It was, as I haue seene it in his life,
A Sable Siluer'd
   Ham. Ile watch to Night; perchance 'twill wake againe
   Hor. I warrant you it will
   Ham. If it assume my noble Fathers person,
Ile speake to it, though Hell it selfe should gape
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
If you haue hitherto conceald this sight;
Let it bee treble in your silence still:
And whatsoeuer els shall hap to night,
Giue it an vnderstanding but no tongue;
I will requite your loues; so fare ye well:
Vpon the Platforme twixt eleuen and twelue,
Ile visit you
