   Qu. My Lord cheere vp your spirits, our foes are nye,
And this soft courage makes your Followers faint:
You promist Knighthood to our forward sonne,
Vnsheath your sword, and dub him presently.
Edward, kneele downe
   King. Edward Plantagenet, arise a Knight,
And learne this Lesson; Draw thy Sword in right
   Prin. My gracious Father, by your Kingly leaue,
Ile draw it as Apparant to the Crowne,
And in that quarrell, vse it to the death
   Clif. Why that is spoken like a toward Prince.
Enter a Messenger.
  Mess. Royall Commanders, be in readinesse,
For with a Band of thirty thousand men,
Comes Warwicke backing of the Duke of Yorke,
And in the Townes as they do march along,
Proclaimes him King, and many flye to him,
Darraigne your battell, for they are at hand
   Clif. I would your Highnesse would depart the field,
The Queene hath best successe when you are absent
   Qu. I good my Lord, and leaue vs to our Fortune
   King. Why, that's my fortune too, therefore Ile stay
   North. Be it with resolution then to fight
   Prin. My Royall Father, cheere these Noble Lords,
And hearten those that fight in your defence:
Vnsheath your Sword, good Father: Cry S[aint]. George.
March. Enter Edward, Warwicke, Richard, Clarence, Norfolke,
Mountague, and
Soldiers.
  Edw. Now periur'd Henry, wilt thou kneel for grace?
And set thy Diadem vpon my head?
Or bide the mortall Fortune of the field
   Qu. Go rate thy Minions, proud insulting Boy,
Becomes it thee to be thus bold in termes,
Before thy Soueraigne, and thy lawfull King?
  Ed. I am his King, and he should bow his knee:
I was adopted Heire by his consent
   Cla. Since when, his Oath is broke: for as I heare,
You that are King, though he do weare the Crowne,
Haue caus'd him by new Act of Parliament,
To blot out me, and put his owne Sonne in
   Clif. And reason too,
Who should succeede the Father, but the Sonne
   Rich. Are you there Butcher? O, I cannot speake
   Clif. I Crooke-back, here I stand to answer thee,
Or any he, the proudest of thy sort
   Rich. 'Twas you that kill'd yong Rutland, was it not?
  Clif. I, and old Yorke, and yet not satisfied
   Rich. For Gods sake Lords giue signall to the fight
   War. What say'st thou Henry,
Wilt thou yeeld the Crowne?
  Qu. Why how now long-tongu'd Warwicke, dare you speak?
When you and I, met at S[aint]. Albons last,
Your legges did better seruice then your hands
   War. Then 'twas my turne to fly, and now 'tis thine:
  Clif. You said so much before, and yet you fled
   War. 'Twas not your valor Clifford droue me thence
   Nor. No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay
   Rich. Northumberland, I hold thee reuerently,
Breake off the parley, for scarse I can refraine
The execution of my big-swolne heart
Vpon that Clifford, that cruell Child-killer
   Clif. I slew thy Father, cal'st thou him a Child?
  Rich. I like a Dastard, and a treacherous Coward,
As thou didd'st kill our tender Brother Rutland,
But ere Sunset, Ile make thee curse the deed
