It took all Mr James' cosmopolitan training to see that there existed an
international situation, that the fact that Americans visited Europe
constituted a drama. An Englishman who visited Italy did no more than
take a look at a more richly coloured order of life that braced him up,
as any gay spectacle might have done, to return to his own; his travel
was a pleasure, or, at most, if he happened to be a Landor or a
Browning, an inspiration. It might reasonably be supposed that the visit
to Europe of an American was no greater matter. But Mr James knew that
the wealthy American was in the position of a man who has built a
comfortable house and has plenty of money over, yet cannot furnish it
because furniture is neither made nor sold in his country; until he has
crossed the sea to the land where they do make furniture he must sleep
and eat on the floor.
     "One might enumerate," he writes in those early days, "the items of
     high civilisation as it exists in other countries, which are absent
     from the texture of American life, until it should become a wonder
     what was left. No State, in the European sense of the word, and
     indeed barely a specific national name. No sovereign, no court, no
     personal loyalty, no aristocracy...."
There follows a long list, so long as to provoke the "natural remark ...
that if these things are left out everything is left out." And, Mr James
goes on to complain, "it takes so many things--such an accumulation of
history and custom, such a complexity of manners and types, to form a
fund of suggestion for a novelist." He wrote novelist because at the
moment he was criticising Hawthorne, but he would certainly have applied
his phrase to anyone who desired his life to be not a corduroy track
but a marble terrace with palaces on the one hand and fair gardens on
the other.
Since the pilgrimage for these items of high civilisation appeared to
Europeans--as innumerable contemporary allusions show it did--as mere
globe-trottings, the pilgrims themselves were likely to be as
misunderstood. For one thing, although they were unorganised so far as
culture went, they formed at home a very cohesive moral community. The
American women who came to Europe took for granted that however people
might be habited--people, that is, whose manners showed them "nice"--and
in whatever frivolous array they might be flounced and ribboned, they
were certain to wear next their skin the hair-shirt of Puritan
rectitude. The innocent freedoms which they permitted themselves because
they held this supposition, and the terrifying surmises to which these
gave rise in the mind of the Old World, unaware of the innocence of the
New, made much material for drama. And more dramatic still was the
moment, which came to so many of the travellers who formed close
personal relationships with Europeans, when they realised that the moral
standards to which they had nationally pledged themselves, and which
they individually obeyed with extraordinary fidelity, were here regarded
as simply dowdy. "Compromise!" was the cry of Latin and even English
society. "Compromise on every and any of the Commandments you like! Do
anything you can, in fact, to rub down those rude angles you present to
human intercourse!" And yet it was not to be deduced that Europe was
lax. One had only to look behind the superficial show to see that it had
its own religion, perhaps a more terrible religion than any New England
ever knew, and that what seemed its laziest pleasures were sometimes its
most dreadful rites.
