The first works he produced when he was at once a finished writer and
only the cocoon of a European, present the paradoxical appearance of
being perfect in phrase and incredibly naive in their estimates of
persons and situations. _The Pension Beaurepas_ (1879), that melancholy
tale of the ailing old American whose wife and daughter have dragged him
off on an expensive trip to Europe, while ruin falls on his untended
business in New York, has its tone of pathos spoiled by extraordinarily
cold-blooded and, to women of to-day, extremely unsavoury discussions of
how a girl ought to behave if she wants to be married. _The Siege of
London_ (1883), which is the story of a Texan adventuress of many
divorces who marries into an English county family, fails to produce the
designed effect of outrage, because the adventuress is the only person
who shows any signs of human worth, and the life which she is supposed
to have violated by her marriage is suggested simply by statements that
the people concerned had titles and lived in large houses. In _Pandora_
(1884), which describes a German diplomat's amazement that an unmarried
girl can be a social success in America, we feel as bored as we would if
we were forced to listen to the exclamations of a dog-fancier on finding
that a Pekingese with regular features had got a prize at a dog show. In
_Lady Barbarina_ (1884), which tells how a peer's daughter who marries
an American millionaire refuses to live in America, the American picture
is painted with the flatness of a flagging interest, and we suspect Mr
James of taking English architecture as an index of English character;
he had still to grasp the paradox that the people who live in the
solidities of Grosvenor Square are the best colonising and seafaring
stock in the world. In _The Reverberator_ (1888), wherein an American
girl guilelessly prattles to a newspaper correspondent about the affairs
of her French fiance's family and is cast out by them when he publishes
her prattlings in the States, we seem to see the international situation
slowly fading from Mr James' immediate consciousness. In turning over
its pages we see the author sitting down before a pile of white paper
and finely inscribing it with memories of past contacts with Americans;
we do not see him entering his study with traces still on his lips of a
smile provoked in the street outside by the loveliness and innocent
barbarism of his compatriots. In those days he had lost America and had
not yet found Europe, but he was to find it very soon. In _A London
Life_ (1889), the tale of an innocent American girl who comes over to
live with her sister and her aristocratic English husband, and stands
appalled at their debts, their debaucheries, their infidelities, he has
rendered beautifully the feeling caused by ill lives when led in old
homes of elmy parks and honourable histories. It is a sense of disgust
such as comes to the early-rising guest who goes into a drawing-room in
the morning and finds last night's coffee-cups and decanters and
cigarette ends looking dreadful in the sunlight. The house is being
badly managed; it will go to rack and ruin. That is an aspect of
England; but the American onlooker is just a clean-minded little thing
that might have bloomed anywhere, and all references to her Americanness
are dragged in with an effort. It is plain that he had lost all his love
for the international situation.
