Experts of unchallengeable authority have testified definitely as to only
one of Shakespeare's multifarious craft-equipments, so far as my
recollections of Shakespeare-Bacon talk abide with me--his law-equipment.
I do not remember that Wellington or Napoleon ever examined Shakespeare's
battles and sieges and strategies, and then decided and established for
good and all, that they were militarily flawless; I do not remember that
any Nelson, or Drake or Cook ever examined his seamanship and said it
showed profound and accurate familiarity with that art; I don't remember
that any king or prince or duke has ever testified that Shakespeare was
letter-perfect in his handling of royal court-manners and the talk and
manners of aristocracies; I don't remember that any illustrious Latinist
or Grecian or Frenchman or Spaniard or Italian has proclaimed him a
past-master in those languages; I don't remember--well, I don't remember
that there is _testimony_--great testimony--imposing
testimony--unanswerable and unattackable testimony as to any of
Shakespeare's hundred specialties, except one--the law.
Other things change, with time, and the student cannot trace back with
certainty the changes that various trades and their processes and
technicalities have undergone in the long stretch of a century or two and
find out what their processes and technicalities were in those early
days, but with the law it is different: it is mile-stoned and documented
all the way back, and the master of that wonderful trade, that complex
and intricate trade, that awe-compelling trade, has competent ways of
knowing whether Shakespeare-law is good law or not; and whether his
law-court procedure is correct or not, and whether his legal shop-talk is
the shop-talk of a veteran practitioner or only a machine-made
counterfeit of it gathered from books and from occasional loiterings in
Westminster.
Richard H. Dana served two years before the mast, and had every
experience that falls to the lot of the sailor before the mast of our
day.  His sailor-talk flows from his pen with the sure touch and the ease
and confidence of a person who has _lived_ what he is talking about, not
gathered it from books and random listenings.  Hear him:
    Having hove short, cast off the gaskets, and made the bunt of each
    sail fast by the jigger, with a man on each yard, at the word the
    whole canvas of the ship was loosed, and with the greatest rapidity
    possible everything was sheeted home and hoisted up, the anchor
    tripped and cat-headed, and the ship under headway.
Again:
    The royal yards were all crossed at once, and royals and sky-sails
    set, and, as we had the wind free, the booms were run out, and all
    were aloft, active as cats, laying out on the yards and booms,
    reeving the studding-sail gear; and sail after sail the captain piled
    upon her, until she was covered with canvas, her sails looking like a
    great white cloud resting upon a black speck.
Once more.  A race in the Pacific:
    Our antagonist was in her best trim.  Being clear of the point, the
    breeze became stiff, and the royal-masts bent under our sails, but we
    would not take them in until we saw three boys spring into the
    rigging of the _California_; then they were all furled at once, but
    with orders to our boys to stay aloft at the top-gallant mast-heads
    and loose them again at the word.  It was my duty to furl the
    fore-royal; and while standing by to loose it again, I had a fine
    view of the scene.  From where I stood, the two vessels seemed
    nothing but spars and sails, while their narrow decks, far below,
    slanting over by the force of the wind aloft, appeared hardly capable
    of supporting the great fabrics raised upon them.  The _California_
    was to windward of us, and had every advantage; yet, while the breeze
    was stiff we held our own.  As soon as it began to slacken she ranged
    a little ahead, and the order was given to loose the royals.  In an
    instant the gaskets were off and the bunt dropped.  "Sheet home the
    fore-royal!"--"Weather sheet's home!"--"Lee sheet's home!"--"Hoist
    away, sir!" is bawled from aloft.  "Overhaul your clewlines!" shouts
    the mate.  "Aye-aye, sir, all clear!"--"Taut leech! belay!  Well the
    lee brace; haul taut to windward!" and the royals are set.
