"I'd be willing to hurt my back dreadfully, if I could lie and do such
lovely things all day," said Merry, as she reluctantly put down her
needle at last, for home duties waited to be done, and looked more than
ever distasteful after this new pleasure.
"So would I! Oh, do you think Mrs. Minot will let you fill the horns
when they are done? I'd love to help you then. Be sure you send for
me!" cried Molly Loo, arching her neck like a proud pigeon to watch the
glitter of her purple and gold necklace on her brown gown.
"I'm afraid you couldn't be trusted, you love sweeties so, and I'm sure
Boo couldn't. But I'll see about it," replied Jill, with a responsible
air.
The mention of the boy recalled him to their minds, and looking round
they found him peacefully absorbed in polishing up the floor with
Molly's pocket-handkerchief and oil from the little machine-can. Being
torn from this congenial labor, he was carried off shining with grease
and roaring lustily.
But Jill did not mind her loneliness now, and sang like a happy canary
while she threaded her sparkling beads, or hung the gay horns to dry,
ready for their cargoes of sweets. So Mrs. Minot's recipe for sunshine
proved successful, and mother-wit made the wintry day a bright and happy
one for both the little prisoners.
Chapter V. Secrets
There were a great many clubs in Harmony Village, but as we intend to
interest ourselves with the affairs of the young folks only, we need
not dwell upon the intellectual amusements of the elders. In summer, the
boys devoted themselves to baseball, the girls to boating, and all got
rosy, stout, and strong, in these healthful exercises. In winter,
the lads had their debating club, the lasses a dramatic ditto. At
the former, astonishing bursts of oratory were heard; at the latter,
everything was boldly attempted, from Romeo and Juliet to Mother Goose's
immortal melodies. The two clubs frequently met and mingled their
attractions in a really entertaining manner, for the speakers made good
actors, and the young actresses were most appreciative listeners to the
eloquence of each budding Demosthenes.
Great plans had been afoot for Christmas or New Year, but when the grand
catastrophe put an end to the career of one of the best "spouters," and
caused the retirement of the favorite "singing chambermaid," the affair
was postponed till February, when Washington's birthday was always
celebrated by the patriotic town, where the father of his country once
put on his nightcap, or took off his boots, as that ubiquitous hero
appears to have done in every part of the United States.
Meantime the boys were studying Revolutionary characters, and the girls
rehearsing such dramatic scenes as they thought most appropriate and
effective for the 22d. In both of these attempts they were much helped
by the sense and spirit of Ralph Evans, a youth of nineteen, who was
a great favorite with the young folks, not only because he was a good,
industrious fellow, who supported his grandmother, but also full of
talent, fun, and ingenuity. It was no wonder every one who really knew
him liked him, for he could turn his hand to anything, and loved to do
it. If the girls were in despair about a fire-place when acting "The
Cricket on the Hearth," he painted one, and put a gas-log in it that
made the kettle really boil, to their great delight. If the boys found
the interest of their club flagging, Ralph would convulse them by
imitations of the "Member from Cranberry Centre," or fire them with
speeches of famous statesmen. Charity fairs could not get on without
him, and in the store where he worked he did many an ingenious job,
which made him valued for his mechanical skill, as well as for his
energy and integrity.
