"They are going to have a play, after all, and that green stuff was the
curtain," said Molly Loo, as the girls talked it over one day, when they
sat with their backs turned to one another, putting last stitches in
certain bits of work which had to be concealed from all eyes, though
it was found convenient to ask one another's taste as to the color,
materials, and sizes of these mysterious articles.
"I think it is going to be a dance. I heard the boys doing their steps
when I went in last evening to find out whether Jack liked blue or
yellow best, so I could put the bow on his pen-wiper," declared Merry,
knitting briskly away at the last of the pair of pretty white bed-socks
she was making for Jill right under her inquisitive little nose.
"They wouldn't have a party of that kind without Jack and me. It is only
an extra nice tree, you see if it isn't," answered Jill from behind the
pillows which made a temporary screen to hide the toilet mats she was
preparing for all her friends.
"Every one of you is wrong, and you'd better rest easy, for you won't
find out the best part of it, try as you may." And Mrs. Pecq actually
chuckled as she, too, worked away at some bits of muslin, with her back
turned to the very unsocial-looking group.
"Well, I don't care, we've got a secret all our own, and won't ever
tell, will we?" cried Jill, falling back on the Home Missionary Society,
though it was not yet begun.
"Never!" answered the girls, and all took great comfort in the idea that
one mystery would not be cleared up, even at Christmas.
Jack gave up guessing, in despair, after he had suggested a new
dining-room where he could eat with the family, a private school
in which his lessons might go on with a tutor, or a theatre for the
production of the farces in which he delighted.
"It is going to be used to keep something in that you are very fond of,"
said Mamma, taking pity on him at last.
"Ducks?" asked Jack, with a half pleased, half puzzled air, not quite
seeing where the water was to come from.
Frank exploded at the idea, and added to the mystification by saying,--
"There will be one little duck and one great donkey in it." Then,
fearing he had told the secret, he ran off, quacking and braying
derisively.
"It is to be used for creatures that I, too, am fond of, and you know
neither donkeys nor ducks are favorites of mine," said Mamma, with a
demure expression, as she sat turning over old clothes for the bundles
that always went to poor neighbors, with a little store of goodies, at
this time of the year.
"I know! I know! It is to be a new ward for more sick folks, isn't it,
now?" cried Jack, with what he thought a great proof of shrewdness.
