Just as Jerry had learned from _Mister_ Haggin that he must be more
tolerant of the house-boys than of the field-boys if they trespassed on
the compound, so, from Captain Van Horn, he learned that he must be more
tolerant of the boat's crew than of the return boys.  He had less license
with them, more license with the others.  As long as Captain Van Horn did
not want his boat's crew chased, it was Jerry's duty not to chase.  On
the other hand he never forgot that he was a white-god's dog.  While he
might not chase these particular blacks, he declined familiarity with
them.  He kept his eye on them.  He had seen blacks as tolerated as
these, lined up and whipped by _Mister_ Haggin.  They occupied an
intermediate place in the scheme of things, and they were to be watched
in case they did not keep their place.  He accorded them room, but he did
not accord them equality.  At the best, he could be stand-offishly
considerate of them.
He made thorough examination of the galley, a rude affair, open on the
open deck, exposed to wind and rain and storm, a small stove that was not
even a ship's stove, on which somehow, aided by strings and wedges,
commingled with much smoke, two blacks managed to cook the food for the
four-score persons on board.
Next, he was interested by a strange proceeding on the part of the boat's
crew.  Upright pipes, serving as stanchions, were being screwed into the
top of the _Arangi's_ rail so that they served to support three strands
of barbed wire that ran completely around the vessel, being broken only
at the gangway for a narrow space of fifteen inches.  That this was a
precaution against danger, Jerry sensed without a passing thought to it.
All his life, from his first impressions of life, had been passed in the
heart of danger, ever-impending, from the blacks.  In the plantation
house at Meringe, always the several white men had looked askance at the
many blacks who toiled for them and belonged to them.  In the
living-room, where were the eating-table, the billiard-table, and the
phonograph, stood stands of rifles, and in each bedroom, beside each bed,
ready to hand, had been revolvers and rifles.  As well, _Mister_ Haggin
and Derby and Bob had always carried revolvers in their belts when they
left the house to go among their blacks.
Jerry knew these noise-making things for what they were--instruments of
destruction and death.  He had seen live things destroyed by them, such
as puarkas, goats, birds, and crocodiles.  By means of such things the
white-gods by their will crossed space without crossing it with their
bodies, and destroyed live things.  Now he, in order to damage anything,
had to cross space with his body to get to it.  He was different.  He was
limited.  All impossible things were possible to the unlimited,
two-legged white-gods.  In a way, this ability of theirs to destroy
across space was an elongation of claw and fang.  Without pondering it,
or being conscious of it, he accepted it as he accepted the rest of the
mysterious world about him.
