I nodded comprehension of his statement, and acquiescence in it, as a man
should nod who knows all about men.  But secretly I was perplexed.
Heavens! How was I, who had worked hard and read books of adventure, and
who was only fifteen years old, who had not dreamed of giving the Queen
of the Oyster Pirates a second thought, and who did not know that French
Frank was madly and Latinly in love with her--how was I to guess that I
had done him shame? And how was I to guess that the story of how the
Queen had thrown him down on his own boat, the moment I hove in sight,
was already the gleeful gossip of the water-front? And by the same token,
how was I to guess that her brother Pat's offishness with me was anything
else than temperamental gloominess of spirit?
Whisky Bob got me aside a moment.  "Keep your eyes open," he muttered.
"Take my tip.  French Frank's ugly.  I'm going up river with him to get a
schooner for oystering.  When he gets down on the beds, watch out.  He
says he'll run you down.  After dark, any time he's around, change your
anchorage and douse your riding light.  Savve?"
Oh, certainly, I savve'd.  I nodded my head, and, as one man to another,
thanked him for his tip; and drifted back to the group at the bar.  No; I
did not treat.  I never dreamed that I was expected to treat.  I left
with Spider, and my ears burn now as I try to surmise the things they
must have said about me.
I asked Spider, in an off-hand way, what was eating French Frank.  "He's
crazy jealous of you," was the answer.  "Do you think so?" I said, and
dismissed the matter as not worth thinking about.
But I leave it to any one--the swell of my fifteen-years-old manhood at
learning that French Frank, the adventurer of fifty, the sailor of all
the seas of all the world, was jealous of me--and jealous over a girl
most romantically named the Queen of the Oyster Pirates.  I had read of
such things in books, and regarded them as personal probabilities of a
distant maturity.  Oh, I felt a rare young devil, as we hoisted the big
mainsail that morning, broke out anchor, and filled away close-hauled on
the three-mile beat to windward out into the bay.
Such was my escape from the killing machine-toil, and my introduction to
the oyster pirates.  True, the introduction had begun with drink, and the
life promised to continue with drink.  But was I to stay away from it for
such reason? Wherever life ran free and great, there men drank.  Romance
and Adventure seemed always to go down the street locked arm in arm with
John Barleycorn.  To know the two, I must know the third.  Or else I must
go back to my free library books and read of the deeds of other men and
do no deeds of my own save slave for ten cents an hour at a machine in a
cannery.
