We grew maudlin, and all talked and shouted at once.  I had a splendid
constitution, a stomach that would digest scrap-iron, and I was still
running my marathon in full vigour when Scotty began to fail and fade.
His talk grew incoherent.  He groped for words and could not find them,
while the ones he found his lips were unable to form.  His poisoned
consciousness was leaving him.  The brightness went out of his eyes, and
he looked as stupid as were his efforts to talk.  His face and body
sagged as his consciousness sagged.  (A man cannot sit upright save by an
act of will.)  Scotty's reeling brain could not control his muscles.  All
his correlations were breaking down.  He strove to take another drink,
and feebly dropped the tumbler on the floor.  Then, to my amazement,
weeping bitterly, he rolled into a bunk on his back and immediately
snored off to sleep.
The harpooner and I drank on, grinning in a superior way to each other
over Scotty's plight.  The last flask was opened, and we drank it between
us, to the accompaniment of Scotty's stertorous breathing.  Then the
harpooner faded away into his bunk, and I was left alone, unthrown, on
the field of battle.
I was very proud, and John Barleycorn was proud with me.  I could carry
my drink.  I was a man.  I had drunk two men, drink for drink, into
unconsciousness.  And I was still on my two feet, upright, making my way
on deck to get air into my scorching lungs.  It was in this bout on the
Idler that I discovered what a good stomach and a strong head I had for
drink--a bit of knowledge that was to be a source of pride in succeeding
years, and that ultimately I was to come to consider a great affliction.
The fortunate man is the one who cannot take more than a couple of drinks
without becoming intoxicated.  The unfortunate wight is the one who can
take many glasses without betraying a sign, who must take numerous
glasses in order to get the "kick."
The sun was setting when I came on the Idler's deck.  There were plenty
of bunks below.  I did not need to go home.  But I wanted to demonstrate
to myself how much I was a man.  There lay my skiff astern.  The last of
a strong ebb was running out in channel in the teeth of an ocean breeze
of forty miles an hour.  I could see the stiff whitecaps, and the suck
and run of the current was plainly visible in the face and trough of each
one.
I set sail, cast off, took my place at the tiller, the sheet in my hand,
and headed across channel.  The skiff heeled over and plunged into it
madly.  The spray began to fly.  I was at the pinnacle of exaltation.  I
sang "Blow the Man Down" as I sailed.  I was no boy of fourteen, living
the mediocre ways of the sleepy town called Oakland.  I was a man, a god,
and the very elements rendered me allegiance as I bitted them to my will.
