Not that I drank at that time.  From ten to fifteen I rarely tasted
liquor, but I was intimately in contact with drinkers and drinking
places.  The only reason I did not drink was because I didn't like the
stuff.  As the time passed, I worked as boy-helper on an ice-wagon, set
up pins in a bowling alley with a saloon attached, and swept out saloons
at Sunday picnic grounds.
Big jovial Josie Harper ran a road house at Telegraph Avenue and
Thirty-ninth Street.  Here for a year I delivered an evening paper, until
my route was changed to the water-front and tenderloin of Oakland.  The
first month, when I collected Josie Harper's bill, she poured me a glass
of wine.  I was ashamed to refuse, so I drank it.  But after that I
watched the chance when she wasn't around so as to collect from her
barkeeper.
The first day I worked in the bowling alley, the barkeeper, according to
custom, called us boys up to have a drink after we had been setting up
pins for several hours.  The others asked for beer.  I said I'd take
ginger ale.  The boys snickered, and I noticed the barkeeper favoured me
with a strange, searching scrutiny.  Nevertheless, he opened a bottle of
ginger ale.  Afterward, back in the alleys, in the pauses between games,
the boys enlightened me.  I had offended the barkeeper.  A bottle of
ginger ale cost the saloon ever so much more than a glass of steam beer;
and it was up to me, if I wanted to hold my job, to drink beer.  Besides,
beer was food.  I could work better on it.  There was no food in ginger
ale.  After that, when I couldn't sneak out of it, I drank beer and
wondered what men found in it that was so good.  I was always aware that
I was missing something.
What I really liked in those days was candy. For five cents I could buy
five "cannon-balls"--big lumps of the most delicious lastingness.  I
could chew and worry a single one for an hour.  Then there was a Mexican
who sold big slabs of brown chewing taffy for five cents each.  It
required a quarter of a day properly to absorb one of them.  And many a
day I made my entire lunch off one of those slabs.  In truth, I found
food there, but not in beer.
CHAPTER VI
But the time was rapidly drawing near when I was to begin my second
series of bouts with John Barleycorn.  When I was fourteen, my head
filled with the tales of the old voyagers, my vision with tropic isles
and far sea-rims, I was sailing a small centreboard skiff around San
Francisco Bay and on the Oakland Estuary.  I wanted to go to sea.  I
wanted to get away from monotony and the commonplace.  I was in the
flower of my adolescence, a-thrill with romance and adventure, dreaming
of wild life in the wild man-world.  Little I guessed how all the warp
and woof of that man-world was entangled with alcohol.
