(ELINA GYLDENLOVE enters from the left, slowly and in deep thought.
  Her expression shows that she is going over again in her mind
  the scene with NILS LYKKE.  At last she repeats the motion with
  which she flung away the flowers, and says in a low voice:)
  ELINA. ---- ----And then he gathered up the fragments of the
crown of Denmark--no, 'twas the flowers--and:  "God's holy blood,
but she is proud and fair!"
  Had he whispered the words in the remotest corner, long leagues
from Ostrat,--still had I heard them!
  How I hate him!  How I have always hated him,--this Nils Lykke!--
There lives not another man like him, 'tis said.  He plays with
women--and treads them under his feet.
  And it was to him my mother thought to offer me!--How I hate him!
  They say Nils Lykke is unlike all other men.  It is not true!
There is nothing strange in him.  There are many, many like him!
When Biorn used to tell me his tales, all the princes looked as
Nils Lykke looks.  When I sat lonely here in the hall and dreamed
my histories, and my knights came and went,--they were one and all
even as he.
  How strange and how good it is to hate!  Never have I known how
sweet it can be--till to-night.  Ah--not to live a thousand years
would I sell the moments I have lived since I saw him!--
  "God's holy blood, but she is proud---- ----"
    (Goes slowly towards the background, opens the window and
      looks out.  NILS LYKKE comes in by the first door on the
      right.)
  NILS LYKKE (to himself).  "Sleep well at Ostrat, Sir Knight,"
said Inger Gyldenlove as she left me.  Sleep well?  Ay, it is
easily said, but---- ----  Out there, sky and sea in tumult; below,
in the grave-vault, a young girl on her bier; the fate of two
kingdoms in my hand; and in my breast a withered flower that a
woman has flung at my feet. Truly, I fear me sleep will be slow
of coming.
    (Notices ELINA, who has left the window, and is going out on
      the left.)
There she is.  Her haughty eyes seem veiled with thought.--Ah, if
I but dared--(aloud).  Mistress Elina!
  ELINA (stops at the door).  What will you?  Why do you pursue me?
  NILS LYKKE.  You err; I pursue you not.  I am myself pursued.
  ELINA.  You?
  NILS LYKKE.  By a multitude of thoughts.  Therefore 'tis with
sleep as with you:--it flees me.
  ELINA.  Go to the window, and there you will find pastime;--a
storm-tossed sea----
  NILS LYKKE (smiles).  A storm-tossed sea?  That I may find in
you as well.
  ELINA.  In me?
  NILS LYKKE.  Ay, of that our first meeting has assured me.
  ELINA.  And that offends you?
  NILS LYKKE.  Nay, in nowise; yet I could wish to see you of
milder mood.
  ELINA (proudly).  Think you that you will ever have your wish?
  NILS LYKKE.  I am sure of it.  I have a welcome word to say
to you.
