  LADY INGER (aside).  A secret tie!  Christ, does he----?
  NILS LYKKE (notices her emotion, but makes no sign and continues
without change of manner).  You cannot but see that such a position
must ere long become impossible.--Suppose, now, it lay in my power
to free you from these embarrassments which----
  LADY INGER.  In your power, you say?
  NILS LYKKE.  First of all, Lady Inger, I would beg you to lay no
stress on any careless words I may have used concerning that which
lies between us two.  Think not that I have forgotten for a moment
the wrong I have done you.  Suppose, now, I had long purposed to
make atonement, as far as might be, where I had sinned.  Suppose
that were my reason for undertaking this mission.
  LADY INGER.  Speak your meaning more clearly, Sir Councillor;--I
cannot follow you.
  NILS LYKKE.  I can scarce be mistaken in thinking that you, as
well as I, know of the threatened troubles in Sweden.  You know,
or at least you can guess, that this rising is of far wider aim
than is commonly supposed, and you understand therefore that our
King cannot look on quietly and let things take their course.  Am
I not right?
  LADY INGER.  Go on.
  NILS LYKKE (searchingly, after a short pause).  There is one
possible chance that might endanger Gustav Vasa's throne----
  LADY INGER (aside).  Whither is he tending?
  NILS LYKKE.  ----the chance, namely, that there should exist in
Sweden a man entitled by his birth to claim election to the kingship.
  LADY INGER (evasively).  The Swedish nobles have been even as
bloodily hewn down as our own, Sir Councillor.  Where would you
seek for----?
  NILS LYKKE (with a smile).  Seek?  The man is found already----
  LADY INGER (starts violently).  Ah!  He is found?
  NILS LYKKE.  ----And he is too closely akin to you, Lady Inger,
to be far from your thoughts at this moment.
    (Looks at her.)
  The last Count Sture left a son----
  LADY INGER (with a cry).  Holy Saviour, how know you----?
  NILS LYKKE (surprised).  Be calm, Madam, and let me finish.--
This young man has lived quietly till now with his mother, Sten
Sture's widow.
  LADY INGER (breathes more freely).  With----?  Ah, yes--true,
true!
  NILS LYKKE.  But now he has come forward openly.  He has shown
himself in the Dales as leader of the peasants; their numbers are
growing day by day; and--as perhaps you know--they are finding
friends among the peasants on this side of the border-hills.
  LADY INGER (who has in the meantime regained her composure).  Sir
Councillor,--you speak of all these things as though they must of
necessity be known to me.  What ground have I given you to believe
so?  I know, and wish to know, nothing.  All my care is to live
quietly within my own domain; I give no helping hand to the rebels;
but neither must you count on me if it be your purpose to put
them down.
  NILS LYKKE (in a low voice).  Would you still be inactive, if
it were my purpose to stand by them?
