So Demi was transplanted to Plumfield, and took so kindly to the life
there, that Meg and John and Grandpa felt satisfied that they had done
well. Mixing with other boys brought out the practical side of him,
roused his spirit, and brushed away the pretty cobwebs he was so fond of
spinning in that little brain of his. To be sure, he rather shocked
his mother when he came home, by banging doors, saying "by George"
emphatically, and demanding tall thick boots "that clumped like papa's."
But John rejoiced over him, laughed at his explosive remarks, got the
boots, and said contentedly,
"He is doing well; so let him clump. I want my son to be a manly boy,
and this temporary roughness won't hurt him. We can polish him up by
and by; and as for learning, he will pick that up as pigeons do peas. So
don't hurry him."
Daisy was as sunshiny and charming as ever, with all sorts of
womanlinesses budding in her, for she was like her gentle mother,
and delighted in domestic things. She had a family of dolls, whom she
brought up in the most exemplary manner; she could not get on without
her little work-basket and bits of sewing, which she did so nicely, that
Demi frequently pulled out his handkerchief to display her neat stitches,
and Baby Josy had a flannel petticoat beautifully made by Sister Daisy.
She like to quiddle about the china-closet, prepare the salt-cellars,
put the spoons straight on the table; and every day went round the
parlor with her brush, dusting chairs and tables. Demi called her a
"Betty," but was very glad to have her keep his things in order, lend
him her nimble fingers in all sorts of work, and help him with his
lessons, for they kept abreast there, and had no thought of rivalry.
The love between them was as strong as ever; and no one could laugh
Demi out of his affectionate ways with Daisy. He fought her battles
valiantly, and never could understand why boys should be ashamed to
say "right out," that they loved their sisters. Daisy adored her twin,
thought "my brother" the most remarkable boy in the world, and every
morning, in her little wrapper, trotted to tap at his door with a
motherly "Get up, my dear, it's 'most breakfast time; and here's your
clean collar."
Rob was an energetic morsel of a boy, who seemed to have discovered the
secret of perpetual motion, for he never was still. Fortunately, he was
not mischievous, nor very brave; so he kept out of trouble pretty well,
and vibrated between father and mother like an affectionate little
pendulum with a lively tick, for Rob was a chatterbox.
Teddy was too young to play a very important part in the affairs of
Plumfield, yet he had his little sphere, and filled it beautifully.
Every one felt the need of a pet at times, and Baby was always ready to
accommodate, for kissing and cuddling suited him excellently. Mrs.
Jo seldom stirred without him; so he had his little finger in all the
domestic pies, and every one found them all the better for it, for they
believed in babies at Plumfield.
