So, after supper, when the lads flocked into the schoolroom for more
"high jinks," Mrs. Jo appeared with a violin in her hand, and after a
word with her husband, went to Nat, who sat in a corner watching the
scene with intense interest.
"Now, my lad, give us a little tune. We want a violin in our band, and I
think you will do it nicely."
She expected that he would hesitate; but he seized the old fiddle at
once, and handled it with such loving care, it was plain to see that
music was his passion.
"I'll do the best I can, ma'am," was all he said; and then drew the bow
across the strings, as if eager to hear the dear notes again.
There was a great clatter in the room, but as if deaf to any sounds but
those he made, Nat played softly to himself, forgetting every thing in
his delight. It was only a simple Negro melody, such as street-musicians
play, but it caught the ears of the boys at once, and silenced them,
till they stood listening with surprise and pleasure. Gradually they got
nearer and nearer, and Mr. Bhaer came up to watch the boy; for, as if he
was in his element now, Nat played away and never minded any one, while
his eyes shone, his cheeks reddened, and his thin fingers flew, as he
hugged the old fiddle and made it speak to all their hearts the language
that he loved.
A hearty round of applause rewarded him better than a shower of pennies,
when he stopped and glanced about him, as if to say:
"I've done my best; please like it."
"I say, you do that first rate," cried Tommy, who considered Nat his
protege.
"You shall be the first fiddle in my band," added Franz, with an
approving smile.
Mrs. Bhaer whispered to her husband:
"Teddy is right: there's something in the child." And Mr. Bhaer nodded
his head emphatically, as he clapped Nat on the shoulder, saying,
heartily:
"You play well, my son. Come now and play something which we can sing."
It was the proudest, happiest minute of the poor boy's life when he was
led to the place of honor by the piano, and the lads gathered round,
never heeding his poor clothes, but eying him respectfully and waiting
eagerly to hear him play again.
They chose a song he knew; and after one or two false starts they got
going, and violin, flute, and piano led a chorus of boyish voices that
made the old roof ring again. It was too much for Nat, more feeble than
he knew; and as the final shout died away, his face began to work, he
dropped the fiddle, and turning to the wall sobbed like a little child.
"My dear, what is it?" asked Mrs. Bhaer, who had been singing with all
her might, and trying to keep little Rob from beating time with his
boots.
"You are all so kind and it's so beautiful I can't help it," sobbed Nat,
coughing till he was breathless.
