Lord Arthur rushed out of the club with the paper still in his hand, to
the immense amazement of the hall-porter, who tried in vain to stop him,
and drove at once to Park Lane.  Sybil saw him from the window, and
something told her that he was the bearer of good news.  She ran down to
meet him, and, when she saw his face, she knew that all was well.
‘My dear Sybil,’ cried Lord Arthur, ‘let us be married to-morrow!’
‘You foolish boy!  Why, the cake is not even ordered!’ said Sybil,
laughing through her tears.
CHAPTER VI
WHEN the wedding took place, some three weeks later, St. Peter’s was
crowded with a perfect mob of smart people.  The service was read in the
most impressive manner by the Dean of Chichester, and everybody agreed
that they had never seen a handsomer couple than the bride and
bridegroom.  They were more than handsome, however—they were happy.
Never for a single moment did Lord Arthur regret all that he had suffered
for Sybil’s sake, while she, on her side, gave him the best things a
woman can give to any man—worship, tenderness, and love.  For them
romance was not killed by reality.  They always felt young.
Some years afterwards, when two beautiful children had been born to them,
Lady Windermere came down on a visit to Alton Priory, a lovely old place,
that had been the Duke’s wedding present to his son; and one afternoon as
she was sitting with Lady Arthur under a lime-tree in the garden,
watching the little boy and girl as they played up and down the
rose-walk, like fitful sunbeams, she suddenly took her hostess’s hand in
hers, and said, ‘Are you happy, Sybil?’
‘Dear Lady Windermere, of course I am happy.  Aren’t you?’
‘I have no time to be happy, Sybil.  I always like the last person who is
introduced to me; but, as a rule, as soon as I know people I get tired of
them.’
‘Don’t your lions satisfy you, Lady Windermere?’
‘Oh dear, no! lions are only good for one season.  As soon as their manes
are cut, they are the dullest creatures going.  Besides, they behave very
badly, if you are really nice to them.  Do you remember that horrid Mr.
Podgers?  He was a dreadful impostor.  Of course, I didn’t mind that at
all, and even when he wanted to borrow money I forgave him, but I could
not stand his making love to me.  He has really made me hate cheiromancy.
I go in for telepathy now.  It is much more amusing.’
‘You mustn’t say anything against cheiromancy here, Lady Windermere; it
is the only subject that Arthur does not like people to chaff about.  I
assure you he is quite serious over it.’
‘You don’t mean to say that he believes in it, Sybil?’
‘Ask him, Lady Windermere, here he is’; and Lord Arthur came up the
garden with a large bunch of yellow roses in his hand, and his two
children dancing round him.
