One day, however, as he was going over the house in Curzon Street, in
company with Lady Clementina’s solicitor and Sybil herself, burning
packages of faded letters, and turning out drawers of odd rubbish, the
young girl suddenly gave a little cry of delight.
‘What have you found, Sybil?’ said Lord Arthur, looking up from his work,
and smiling.
‘This lovely little silver _bonbonniere_, Arthur.  Isn’t it quaint and
Dutch?  Do give it to me!  I know amethysts won’t become me till I am
over eighty.’
It was the box that had held the aconitine.
Lord Arthur started, and a faint blush came into his cheek.  He had
almost entirely forgotten what he had done, and it seemed to him a
curious coincidence that Sybil, for whose sake he had gone through all
that terrible anxiety, should have been the first to remind him of it.
‘Of course you can have it, Sybil.  I gave it to poor Lady Clem myself.’
‘Oh! thank you, Arthur; and may I have the _bonbon_ too?  I had no notion
that Lady Clementina liked sweets.  I thought she was far too
intellectual.’
Lord Arthur grew deadly pale, and a horrible idea crossed his mind.
‘_Bonbon_, Sybil?  What do you mean?’ he said in a slow, hoarse voice.
‘There is one in it, that is all.  It looks quite old and dusty, and I
have not the slightest intention of eating it.  What is the matter,
Arthur?  How white you look!’
Lord Arthur rushed across the room, and seized the box.  Inside it was
the amber-coloured capsule, with its poison-bubble.  Lady Clementina had
died a natural death after all!
The shock of the discovery was almost too much for him.  He flung the
capsule into the fire, and sank on the sofa with a cry of despair.
CHAPTER V
MR. Merton was a good deal distressed at the second postponement of the
marriage, and Lady Julia, who had already ordered her dress for the
wedding, did all in her power to make Sybil break off the match.  Dearly,
however, as Sybil loved her mother, she had given her whole life into
Lord Arthur’s hands, and nothing that Lady Julia could say could make her
waver in her faith.  As for Lord Arthur himself, it took him days to get
over his terrible disappointment, and for a time his nerves were
completely unstrung.  His excellent common sense, however, soon asserted
itself, and his sound, practical mind did not leave him long in doubt
about what to do.  Poison having proved a complete failure, dynamite, or
some other form of explosive, was obviously the proper thing to try.
He accordingly looked again over the list of his friends and relatives,
and, after careful consideration, determined to blow up his uncle, the
Dean of Chichester.  The Dean, who was a man of great culture and
learning, was extremely fond of clocks, and had a wonderful collection of
timepieces, ranging from the fifteenth century to the present day, and it
seemed to Lord Arthur that this hobby of the good Dean’s offered him an
excellent opportunity for carrying out his scheme.  Where to procure an
explosive machine was, of course, quite another matter.  The London
Directory gave him no information on the point, and he felt that there
was very little use in going to Scotland Yard about it, as they never
seemed to know anything about the movements of the dynamite faction till
after an explosion had taken place, and not much even then.
