‘The Duchess has left one of her gloves here, Lord Arthur, and has asked
me to bring it to her,’ said Mr. Podgers finally.  ‘Ah, I see it on the
sofa!  Good evening.’
‘Mr. Podgers, I must insist on your giving me a straightforward answer to
a question I am going to put to you.’
‘Another time, Lord Arthur, but the Duchess is anxious.  I am afraid I
must go.’
‘You shall not go.  The Duchess is in no hurry.’
‘Ladies should not be kept waiting, Lord Arthur,’ said Mr. Podgers, with
his sickly smile.  ‘The fair sex is apt to be impatient.’
Lord Arthur’s finely-chiselled lips curled in petulant disdain.  The poor
Duchess seemed to him of very little importance at that moment.  He
walked across the room to where Mr. Podgers was standing, and held his
hand out.
‘Tell me what you saw there,’ he said.  ‘Tell me the truth.  I must know
it.  I am not a child.’
Mr. Podgers’s eyes blinked behind his gold-rimmed spectacles, and he
moved uneasily from one foot to the other, while his fingers played
nervously with a flash watch-chain.
‘What makes you think that I saw anything in your hand, Lord Arthur, more
than I told you?’
‘I know you did, and I insist on your telling me what it was.  I will pay
you.  I will give you a cheque for a hundred pounds.’
The green eyes flashed for a moment, and then became dull again.
‘Guineas?’ said Mr. Podgers at last, in a low voice.
‘Certainly.  I will send you a cheque to-morrow.  What is your club?’
‘I have no club.  That is to say, not just at present.  My address is—,
but allow me to give you my card’; and producing a bit of gilt-edge
pasteboard from his waistcoat pocket, Mr. Podgers handed it, with a low
bow, to Lord Arthur, who read on it,
                          _Mr. SEPTIMUS R. PODGERS_
                         _Professional Cheiromantist_
                          103_a_ _West Moon Street_
‘My hours are from ten to four,’ murmured Mr. Podgers mechanically, ‘and
I make a reduction for families.’
‘Be quick,’ cried Lord Arthur, looking very pale, and holding his hand
out.
Mr. Podgers glanced nervously round, and drew the heavy _portiere_ across
the door.
‘It will take a little time, Lord Arthur, you had better sit down.’
‘Be quick, sir,’ cried Lord Arthur again, stamping his foot angrily on
the polished floor.
Mr. Podgers smiled, drew from his breast-pocket a small magnifying glass,
and wiped it carefully with his handkerchief.
‘I am quite ready,’ he said.
CHAPTER II
TEN minutes later, with face blanched by terror, and eyes wild with
grief, Lord Arthur Savile rushed from Bentinck House, crushing his way
through the crowd of fur-coated footmen that stood round the large
striped awning, and seeming not to see or hear anything.  The night was
bitter cold, and the gas-lamps round the square flared and flickered in
the keen wind; but his hands were hot with fever, and his forehead burned
like fire.  On and on he went, almost with the gait of a drunken man.  A
policeman looked curiously at him as he passed, and a beggar, who
slouched from an archway to ask for alms, grew frightened, seeing misery
greater than his own.  Once he stopped under a lamp, and looked at his
hands.  He thought he could detect the stain of blood already upon them,
and a faint cry broke from his trembling lips.
