There were signs of an early winter, and the question that was discussed
from dawn till dark, and far into the dark, was whether they would get
out before the freeze-up or be compelled to abandon the steamboat and
tramp out over the ice.  There were irritating delays.  Twice the engines
broke down and had to be tinkered up, and each time there were snow
flurries to warn them of the imminence of winter.  Nine times the _W. H.
Willis_ essayed to ascend the Five-Finger Rapids with her impaired
machinery, and when she succeeded, she was four days behind her very
liberal schedule.  The question that then arose was whether or not the
steamboat _Flora_ would wait for her above the Box Canon.  The stretch of
water between the head of the Box Canon and the foot of the White Horse
Rapids was unnavigable for steamboats, and passengers were transhipped at
that point, walking around the rapids from one steamboat to the other.
There were no telephones in the country, hence no way of informing the
waiting _Flora_ that the _Willis_ was four days late, but coming.
When the _W. H. Willis_ pulled into White Horse, it was learned that the
_Flora_ had waited three days over the limit, and had departed only a few
hours before.  Also, it was learned that she would tie up at Tagish Post
till nine o'clock, Sunday morning.  It was then four o'clock, Saturday
afternoon.  The pilgrims called a meeting.  On board was a large
Peterborough canoe, consigned to the police post at the head of Lake
Bennett.  They agreed to be responsible for it and to deliver it.  Next,
they called for volunteers.  Two men were needed to make a race for the
_Flora_.  A score of men volunteered on the instant.  Among them was
Churchill, such being his nature that he volunteered before he thought of
Bondell's gripsack.  When this thought came to him, he began to hope that
he would not be selected; but a man who had made a name as captain of a
college football eleven, as a president of an athletic club, as a
dog-musher and a stampeder in the Yukon, and, moreover, who possessed
such shoulders as he, had no right to avoid the honour.  It was thrust
upon him and upon a gigantic German, Nick Antonsen.
While a crowd of the pilgrims, the canoe on their shoulders, started on a
trot over the portage, Churchill ran to his state-room.  He turned the
contents of the clothes-bag on the floor and caught up the grip, with the
intention of entrusting it to the man next door.  Then the thought smote
him that it was not his grip, and that he had no right to let it out of
his possession.  So he dashed ashore with it and ran up the portage
changing it often from one hand to the other, and wondering if it really
did not weigh more than forty pounds.
It was half-past four in the afternoon when the two men started.  The
current of the Thirty Mile River was so strong that rarely could they use
the paddles.  It was out on one bank with a tow-line over the shoulders,
stumbling over the rocks, forcing a way through the underbrush, slipping
at times and falling into the water, wading often up to the knees and
waist; and then, when an insurmountable bluff was encountered, it was
into the canoe, out paddles, and a wild and losing dash across the
current to the other bank, in paddles, over the side, and out tow-line
again.  It was exhausting work.  Antonsen toiled like the giant he was,
uncomplaining, persistent, but driven to his utmost by the powerful body
and indomitable brain of Churchill.  They never paused for rest.  It was
go, go, and keep on going.  A crisp wind blew down the river, freezing
their hands and making it imperative, from time to time, to beat the
blood back into the numbed fingers.
