But he was safe.  Toes and nose and cheeks would be only touched by the
frost, for the fire was beginning to burn with strength.  He was feeding
it with twigs the size of his finger.  In another minute he would be able
to feed it with branches the size of his wrist, and then he could remove
his wet foot-gear, and, while it dried, he could keep his naked feet warm
by the fire, rubbing them at first, of course, with snow.  The fire was a
success.  He was safe.  He remembered the advice of the old-timer on
Sulphur Creek, and smiled.  The old-timer had been very serious in laying
down the law that no man must travel alone in the Klondike after fifty
below.  Well, here he was; he had had the accident; he was alone; and he
had saved himself.  Those old-timers were rather womanish, some of them,
he thought.  All a man had to do was to keep his head, and he was all
right.  Any man who was a man could travel alone.  But it was surprising,
the rapidity with which his cheeks and nose were freezing.  And he had
not thought his fingers could go lifeless in so short a time.  Lifeless
they were, for he could scarcely make them move together to grip a twig,
and they seemed remote from his body and from him.  When he touched a
twig, he had to look and see whether or not he had hold of it.  The wires
were pretty well down between him and his finger-ends.
All of which counted for little.  There was the fire, snapping and
crackling and promising life with every dancing flame.  He started to
untie his moccasins.  They were coated with ice; the thick German socks
were like sheaths of iron half-way to the knees; and the mocassin strings
were like rods of steel all twisted and knotted as by some conflagration.
For a moment he tugged with his numbed fingers, then, realizing the folly
of it, he drew his sheath-knife.
But before he could cut the strings, it happened.  It was his own fault
or, rather, his mistake.  He should not have built the fire under the
spruce tree.  He should have built it in the open.  But it had been
easier to pull the twigs from the brush and drop them directly on the
fire.  Now the tree under which he had done this carried a weight of snow
on its boughs.  No wind had blown for weeks, and each bough was fully
freighted.  Each time he had pulled a twig he had communicated a slight
agitation to the tree--an imperceptible agitation, so far as he was
concerned, but an agitation sufficient to bring about the disaster.  High
up in the tree one bough capsized its load of snow.  This fell on the
boughs beneath, capsizing them.  This process continued, spreading out
and involving the whole tree.  It grew like an avalanche, and it
descended without warning upon the man and the fire, and the fire was
blotted out!  Where it had burned was a mantle of fresh and disordered
snow.
