FOOTNOTES:
[5] Emerson in Concord. By Edward Waldo Emerson.
[6] "Philothea" was the delight of girls. The young Alcotts made a
dramatic version of it, which they acted under the trees. Louisa made
a magnificent Aspasia, which was a part much to her fancy. Mrs. Child
was a very dear friend of Mrs. Alcott, and her daughters knew her
well.
CHAPTER IV.
THE SENTIMENTAL PERIOD.
     A SONG FROM THE SUDS.
     Queen of my tub, I merrily sing,
       While the white foam rises high,
     And sturdily wash, and rinse, and wring,
       And fasten the clothes to dry;
     Then out in the free fresh air they swing,
       Under the sunny sky.
     I wish we could wash from our hearts and our souls
       The stains of the week away,
     And let water and air by their magic make
       Ourselves as pure as they;
     Then on the earth there would be indeed
       A glorious washing-day!
     Along the path of a useful life
       Will heart's-ease ever bloom;
     The busy mind has no time to think
       Of sorrow, or care, or gloom;
     And anxious thoughts may be swept away
       As we busily wield a broom.
     I am glad a task to me is given
       To labor at day by day;
     For it brings me health, and strength, and hope,
       And I cheerfully learn to say,--
     "Head, you may think; heart, you may feel;
       But hand, you shall work alway!"
The period of free, happy childhood was necessarily short, and at
about the age of fifteen Louisa Alcott began to feel the pressure of
thoughts and duties which made life a more solemn matter. In spite of
the overflowing fun which appears in her books, her nature was very
serious, and she could not cast aside care lightly. So many varying
tendencies existed in her character that she must have struggled with
many doubts and questions before finding the true path. But she always
kept the pole-star of right strictly in view, and never failed in
truth to that duty which seemed to her nearest and most imperative. If
she erred in judgment, she did not err in conscientious fidelity.
Her mother's rules for her guidance were--
     Rule yourself.
     Love your neighbor.
     Do the duty which lies nearest you.
She never lost sight of these instructions.
I will introduce this period in her own words, as written later for
the use of a friend.
   My romantic period began at fifteen, when I fell to writing
   poetry, keeping a heart-journal, and wandering by moonlight
   instead of sleeping quietly. About that time, in browsing over
   Mr. Emerson's library, I found Goethe's "Correspondence with a
   Child," and at once was fired with a desire to be a Bettine,
   making my father's friend my Goethe. So I wrote letters to him,
   but never sent them; sat in a tall cherry-tree at midnight,
   singing to the moon till the owls scared me to bed; left wild
   flowers on the doorstep of my "Master," and sung Mignon's song
   under his window in very bad German.
