   Not till many years later did I tell _my_ Goethe of this early
   romance and the part he played in it. He was much amused, and
   begged for his letters, kindly saying he felt honored to be so
   worshipped. The letters were burnt long ago, but Emerson remained
   my "Master" while he lived, doing more for me,--as for many
   another,--than he knew, by the simple beauty of his life, the
   truth and wisdom of his books, the example of a great, good man,
   untempted and unspoiled by the world which he made better while
   in it, and left richer and nobler when he went.
   The trials of life began about this time, and happy childhood
   ended. One of the most memorable days of my life is a certain
   gloomy November afternoon, when we had been holding a family
   council as to ways and means. In summer we lived much as the
   birds did, on our fruit and bread and milk; the sun was our fire,
   the sky our roof, and Nature's plenty made us forget that such a
   thing as poverty existed.
In 1850 she heads her diary "The Sentimental Period." She was then
seventeen years old, but her diary gives no hint of the sentimental
notions that often fill the heads of young girls at that period. The
experiences of Jo with her charming young neighbor in "Little Women"
do not represent hers at all.
One bit of romance was suggested by Goethe's "Correspondence with a
Child." It may be difficult for readers of to-day to understand the
fascination which this book exercised upon young minds of the last
generation, yet it is certain that it led more than one young girl to
form an ideal attachment to a man far older than herself, but full of
nobility and intellectual greatness. Theodore Parker said of letters
addressed to him by a young New Hampshire girl, "They are as good as
Bettine's without the lies." This mingling of idealism and
hero-worship was strongly characteristic of that transcendental period
when women, having little solid education and less industrial
employment, were full of noble aspirations and longings for fuller and
freer life, which must find expression in some way.
The young woman of to-day, wearing waterproof and india-rubber boots,
skating, driving, and bicycling, studying chemistry in the laboratory,
exhibiting her pictures in open competition, adopting a profession
without opposition, and living single without fear of reproach, has
less time for fancies and more regard for facts.
Miss Alcott was safe in choosing her idol. Worship of Emerson could
only refine and elevate her thoughts, and her intimate acquaintance
with his beautiful home chastened her idolatry into pure reverent
friendship which never failed her. She kept her worship to herself,
and never sent him the letters in which she poured out the longings
and raptures which filled her girlish heart.
Her diary, which was revised by herself in later years, tells the
story of this period quite fully. The details may seem trifling, but
they help to illustrate this important formative period of her life.
