   [The appropriateness of the song at this time was much greater
   than the child saw. She never forgot this experience, and her
   little cross began to grow heavier from this hour.--L. M. A.]
   CONCORD, _Sunday_.--We all went into the woods to get moss for
   the _arbor_ Father is making for _Mr. Emerson_. I miss Anna so
   much. I made two verses for her:--
     TO ANNA.
     Sister, dear, when you are lonely,
       Longing for your distant home,
     And the images of loved ones
       Warmly to your heart shall come,
     Then, mid tender thoughts and fancies,
       Let one fond voice say to thee,
     "Ever when your heart is heavy,
       Anna, dear, then think of me."
     Think how we two have together
       Journeyed onward day by day,
     Joys and sorrows ever sharing,
       While the swift years roll away.
     Then may all the sunny hours
       Of our youth rise up to thee,
     And when your heart is light and happy,
       Anna, dear, then think of me.
   [Poetry began to flow about this time in a thin but copious
   stream.--L. M. A.]
   _Wednesday._--Read Martin Luther. A long letter from Anna. She
   sends me a picture of Jenny Lind, the great singer. She must be a
   happy girl. I should like to be famous as she is. Anna is very
   happy; and I don't miss her as much as I shall by and by in the
   winter.
   I wrote in my Imagination Book, and enjoyed it very much. Life is
   pleasanter than it used to be, and I don't care about dying any
   more. Had a splendid run, and got a box of cones to burn. Sat and
   heard the pines sing a long time. Read Miss Bremer's "Home" in
   the eve. Had good dreams, and woke now and then to think, and
   watch the moon. I had a pleasant time with my mind, for it was
   happy.
   [Moods began early.--L. M. A.]
   _January, 1845, Friday._--Did my lessons, and in the P.M. mother
   read "Kenilworth" to us while we sewed. It is splendid! I got
   angry and called Anna mean. Father told me to look out the word
   in the Dic., and it meant "base," "contemptible." I was so
   ashamed to have called my dear sister that, and I cried over my
   bad tongue and temper.
   We have had a lovely day. All the trees were covered with ice,
   and it shone like diamonds or fairy palaces. I made a piece of
   poetry about winter:--
     The stormy winter's come at last,
       With snow and rain and bitter blast;
     Ponds and brooks are frozen o'er,
       We cannot sail there any more.
     The little birds are flown away
       To warmer climes than ours;
     They'll come no more till gentle May
       Calls them back with flowers.
     Oh, then the darling birds will sing
       From their neat nests in the trees.
     All creatures wake to welcome Spring,
       And flowers dance in the breeze.
     With patience wait till winter is o'er,
       And all lovely things return;
     Of every season try the more
       Some knowledge or virtue to learn.
