SVANHILD [in gentle reproof, withdrawing her hand].
O, why have you betrayed yourself?  How sweet
It was when we as friends could freely meet!
You should have kept your counsel.  Can we stake
Our bliss upon a word that we may break?
Now you have spoken, all is over.
FALK.
                                       No!
I've pointed to the goal,--now leap with me,
My high-souled Svanhild--if you dare, and show
That you have heart and courage to be free.
SVANHILD.
Be free?
FALK.
         Yes, free, for freedom's all-in-all
Is absolutely to fulfil our Call.
And you by heaven were destined, I know well,
To be my bulwark against beauty's spell.
I, like my falcon namesake, have to swing
Against the wind, if I would reach the sky!
You are the breeze I must be breasted by,
You, only you, put vigour in my wing:
Be mine, be mine, until the world shall take you,
When leaves are falling, then our paths shall part.
Sing unto me the treasures of your heart,
And for each song another song I'll make you;
So may you pass into the lamplit glow
Of age, as forests fade without a throe.
SVANHILD [with suppressed bitterness].
I cannot thank you, for your words betray
The meaning of your kind solicitude.
You eye me as a boy a sallow, good
To cut and play the flute on for a day.
FALK.
Yes, better than to linger in the swamp
Till autumn choke it with her grey mists damp!
                                  [Vehemently.
You must! you shall!  To me you must present
What God to you so bountifully lent.
I speak in song what you in dreams have meant.
See yonder bird I innocently slew,
Her warbling was Song's book of books for you.
O, yield your music as she yielded hers!
My life shall be that music set to verse!
SVANHILD.
And when you know me, when my songs are flown,
And my last requiem chanted from the bough,--
What then?
FALK [observing her].
           What then?  Ah, well, remember now!
                       [Pointing to the garden.
SVANHILD [gently].
Yes, I remember you can drive a stone.
FALK [with a scornful laugh].
This is your vaunted soul of freedom therefore!
All daring, if it had an end to dare for!
                                   [Vehemently.
I've shown you one; now, once for all, your yea
Or nay.
SVANHILD.
        You know the answer I must make you:
I never can accept you in your way.
FALK [coldly, breaking off].
Then there's an end of it; the world may take you!
    [SVANHILD has silently turned away.  She supports
      her hands upon the verandah railing, and rests
      her head upon them.
FALK [Walks several times up and down, takes a cigar,
    stops near her and says, after a pause:
You think the topic of my talk to-night
Extremely ludicrous, I should not wonder?
    [Pauses for an answer.  SVANHILD is silent.
I'm very conscious that it was a blunder;
Sister's and daughter's love alone possess you;
Henceforth I'll wear kid gloves when I address you,
Sure, so, of being understood aright.
