    [Pauses, but as SVANHILD remains motionless, he
      turns and goes towards the right.
SVANHILD [lifting her head after a brief silence,
        looking at him and drawing near.
Now I will recompense your kind intent
To save me, with an earnest admonition.
That falcon-image gave me sudden vision
What your "emancipation" really meant.
You said you were the falcon, that must fight
Athwart the wind if it would reach the sky,
I was the breeze you must be breasted by,
Else vain were all your faculty of flight;
How pitifully mean!  How paltry!  Nay
How ludicrous, as you yourself divined!
That seed, however, fell not by the way,
But bred another fancy in my mind
Of a far more illuminating kind.
You, as I saw it, were no falcon, but
A tuneful dragon, out of paper cut,
Whose Ego holds a secondary station,
Dependent on the string for animation;
Its breast was scrawled with promises to pay
In cash poetic,--at some future day;
The wings were stiff with barbs and shafts of wit
That wildly beat the air, but never hit;
The tail was a satiric rod in pickle
To castigate the town's infirmities,
But all it compass'd was to lightly tickle
The casual doer of some small amiss.
So you lay helpless at my feet imploring:
"O raise me, how and where is all the same!
Give me the power of singing and of soaring,
No matter at what cost of bitter blame!"
FALK [clenching his fists in inward agitation].
Heaven be my witness--!
SVANHILD.
                        No, you must be told:--
For such a childish sport I am too old.
But you, whom Nature made for high endeavour,
Are you content the fields of air to tread
Hanging your poet's life upon a thread
That at my pleasure I can slip and sever?
FALK [hurriedly].
What is the date to-day?
SVANHILD [more gently].
                         Why, now, that's right!
Mind well this day, and heed it, and beware;
Trust to your own wings only for your flight,
Sure, if they do not break, that they will bear.
The paper poem for the desk is fit,
That which is lived alone has life in it;
That only has the wings that scale the height;
Choose now between them, poet: be, or write!
                                   [Nearer to him.
Now I have done what you besought me; now
My requiem is chanted from the bough;
My only one; now all my songs are flown;
Now, if you will, I'm ready for the stone!
    [She goes into the house; FALK remains motionless,
      looking after her; far out on the fjord is seen a
      boat, from which the following chorus is faintly
      heard:
CHORUS.
My wings I open, my sails spread wide,
And cleave like an eagle life's glassy tide;
  Gulls follow my furrow's foaming;
Overboard with the ballast of care and cark;
And what if I shatter my roaming bark,
  It is passing sweet to be roaming!
FALK [starting from a reverie].
What, music?  Ah, it will be Lind's quartette
Getting their jubilation up.--Well met!
    [To GULDSTAD, who enters with an overcoat on his arm.
Ah, slipping off, sir?
