"I won't!" answered Sammy, indignant at the brutal tone and unjust
claim.  "I got here first, and it's my job.  You let me alone.  I ain't
afraid of you or your snow-banks either."
The big boy wasted no time in words, for steps were heard inside, but
after a brief scuffle hauled Sammy, fighting bravely all the way, down
the steps, and tumbled him into a deep drift.  Then he ran up the steps,
and respectfully asked for the job when a neat maid opened the door.  He
would have got it if Sam had not roared out, as he floundered in the
drift, "I came first.  He knocked me down 'cause I 'm the smallest.
Please let me do it; please!"
Before another word could be said, a little old lady appeared in the
hall, trying to look stern, and failing entirely, because she was the
picture of a dear fat, cosey grandma.
"Send that _bad_ big boy away, Maria, and call in the poor little
fellow.  I saw the whole thing, and _he_ shall have the job if he can do
it."
The bully slunk away, and Sammy came panting up the steps, white with
snow, a great bruise on his forehead, and a beaming smile on his face,
looking so like a jolly little Santa Claus who had taken a "header" out
of his sleigh that the maid laughed, and the old lady exclaimed, "Bless
the boy! he's dreadfully hurt, and does n't know it.  Come in and be
brushed and get your breath, child, and tell me how that scamp came to
treat you so."
Nothing loath to be comforted, Sammy told his little tale while Maria
dusted him off on the mat, and the old lady hovered in the doorway of
the dining-room, where a nice breakfast smoked and smelled so
deliciously that the boy sniffed the odor of coffee and buckwheats like
a hungry hound.
"He 'll get his death if he goes to work till he's dried a bit.  Put him
over the register, Maria, and I 'll give him a hot drink, for it's
bitter cold, poor dear!"
Away trotted the kind old lady, and in a minute came back with coffee
and cakes, on which Sammy feasted as he warmed his toes and told Kitty's
plans for Christmas, led on by the old lady's questions, and quite
unconscious that he was letting all sorts of cats out of the bag.
Mrs. Bryant understood the little story, and made her plans also, for
the rosy-faced boy was very like a little grandson who died last year,
and her sad old heart was very tender to all other small boys.  So she
found out where Sammy lived, and nodded and smiled at him most cheerily
as he tugged stoutly away at the snow on the long pavements till all was
done, and the little workman came for his wages.
A bright silver dollar and a pocketful of gingerbread sent him off a
rich and happy boy to shovel and sweep till noon, when he proudly showed
his earnings at home, and feasted the babies on the carefully hoarded
cake, for Dilly and Dot were the idols of the household.
