"What in the world is that old plated thing here for?  Missis told Norah
to put it in the kitchen, as she had a new one for a present
to-day--real silver--so out you go;" and as he spoke, John threw the
spoon through the slide,--an exile forevermore from the good society
which she did not value as she should.
Tony saw the glimmer of a smile in Grand-papa Ladle's face, but it was
gone like a flash, and by the time the boy reached the table nothing was
to be seen in the silver bowl but his own round rosy countenance, full
of wonder.
"I don't think any one will believe what I 've seen, but I mean to tell,
it was so _very_ curious," he said, as he surveyed the scene of the late
frolic, now so neat and quiet that not a wrinkle or a crumb betrayed
what larks had been going on.
Hastily fishing up his long-lost marble, the doll's head, and Norah's
thimble, he went thoughtfully upstairs to welcome his cousins, still
much absorbed by this very singular affair.
Dinner was soon announced; and while it lasted every one was too busy
eating the good things before them to observe how quiet the usually
riotous Tony was.  His appetite for turkey and cranberries seemed to
have lost its sharp edge, and the mince-pie must have felt itself sadly
slighted by his lack of appreciation of its substance and flavor.  He
seemed in a brown-study, and kept staring about as if he saw more than
other people did.  He examined Nelly's plate as if looking for a crack,
smiled at the little spoon when he took salt, refused pickles and
mustard with a frown, kept a certain bent fork by him as long as
possible, and tried to make music with a wet finger on the rim of his
bowl at dessert.
But in the evening, when the young people sat around the fire, he amused
them by telling the queer story of the silver party; but he very wisely
left out the remarks made upon himself and family, remembering how
disagreeable the sauce-spoon had seemed, and he privately resolved to
follow Madam Gravy Ladle's advice to keep his own face bright, manners
polite, and speech kindly, that he might prove himself to be pure
silver, and be stamped a gentleman.
[Illustration: "Presently she sat down and let them tap her
cheeks."--PAGE 82.]
                                  IV.
                            THE BLIND LARK.
High up in an old house, full of poor people, lived Lizzie, with her
mother and Baby Billy.  The street was a narrow, noisy place, where
carts rumbled and dirty children played; where the sun seldom shone, the
fresh wind seldom blew, and the white snow of winter was turned at once
to black mud.  One bare room was Lizzie's home, and out of it she seldom
went, for she was a prisoner.  We all pity the poor princesses who were
shut up in towers by bad fairies, the men and women in jails, and the
little birds in cages, but Lizzie was a sadder prisoner than any of
these.
