Baby slept a great deal, for life offered him few pleasures, and like a
small philosopher, he wisely tried to forget the troubles which he could
not cure; so Lizzie had nothing to do but sing, and try to imagine how
the world looked.  She had no one to tell her, and the few memories grew
dimmer and dimmer each year.  She did not know how to work or to play,
never having been taught, and mother was too tired at night to do
anything but get supper and go to bed.
"The child will be an idiot soon, if she does not die," people said; and
it seemed as if this would be the fate of the poor little girl, since no
one came to save her during those three weary years.  She often said,
"I'm of _some_ use.  I take care of Billy, and I could n't live without
him."
But even this duty and delight was taken from her, for that cold spring
nipped the poor little flower, and one day Billy shut his blue eyes with
a patient sigh and left her all alone.
Then Lizzie's heart seemed broken; and people thought she would soon
follow him, now that her one care and comfort was gone.  All day she lay
with her cheek on Billy's pillow, holding the battered tin cup and a
little worn-out shoe, and it was pitiful to hear her sing the old
lullabies as if baby still could hear them.
"It will be a mercy if the poor thing does n't live; blind folks are no
use and a sight of trouble," said one woman to another as they gossiped
in the hall after calling on the child during her mother's absence, for
the door was left unlocked since she was ill.
"Yes, Mrs. Davis would get on nicely if she had n't such a burden.
Thank Heaven, my children are n't blind," answered the other, hugging
her baby closer as she went away.
Lizzie heard them, and hoped with all her sad little soul that death
would set her free, since she was of no use in the world.  To go and be
with Billy was all her desire now, and she was on her way to him,
growing daily weaker and more content to be dreaming of dear baby well
and happy, waiting for her somewhere in a lovely place called heaven.
The summer vacation came; and hundreds of eager children were hurrying
away to the mountains and seashore for two months of healthful pleasure.
Even the dirty children in the lane felt the approach of berry-time, and
rejoiced in their freedom from cold as they swarmed like flies about the
corner grocery where over-ripe fruit was thrown out for them to scramble
over.
Lizzie heard about good times when some of these young neighbors were
chosen to go on the poor children's picnics, and came back with big
sandwiches buttoned up in their jackets, pickles, peanuts, and buns in
their pockets, hands full of faded flowers, and hearts brimming over
with childish delight at a day in the woods.  She listened with a faint
smile, enjoyed the "woodsy" smell of the green things, and wondered if
they had nice picnics in heaven, being sorry that Billy had missed them
here.  But she did not seem to care much, or hope for any pleasure for
herself except to see baby again.
