No one answered these impertinent remarks of the sauce-spoon, for all
knew that she was not pure silver, and was only used on occasions when
many spoons were needed.  Tony was ashamed to hear her talk in that rude
way to the fine old silver he was so proud of, and resolved he 'd give
the saucy spoon a good rap when he helped himself to the cranberry.
An impressive silence lasted till a lively fork exclaimed, as the clock
struck, "Every one is coasting out-of-doors.  Why not have our share of
the fun inside?  It is very fashionable this winter, and ladies and
gentlemen of the best families do it, I assure you."
"We will!" cried the other forks; and as the dowagers did not object,
all fell to work to arrange the table for this agreeable sport.  Tony
sat up to see how they would manage, and was astonished at the ingenuity
of the silver people. With a great clinking and rattling they ran to and
fro, dragging the stiff white mats about; the largest they leaned up
against the tall caster, and laid the rest in a long slope to the edge
of the table, where a pile of napkins made a nice snowdrift to tumble
into.
"What _will_ they do for sleds?" thought Tony; and the next minute
chuckled when he saw them take the slices of bread laid at each place,
pile on, and spin away, with a great scattering of crumbs like
snowflakes, and much laughter as they landed in the white pile at the
end of the coast.
"Won't John give it to 'em if he comes in and catches 'em turning his
nice table topsy-turvy!" said the boy to himself, hoping nothing would
happen to end this jolly frolic.  So he kept very still, and watched the
gay forks and spoons climb up and whiz down till they were tired.  The
little salts got Baby Nell's own small slice, and had lovely times on a
short coast of their own made of one mat held up by grandpa, who smiled
benevolently at the fun, being too old and heavy to join in it.
They kept it up until the slices were worn thin, and one or two upsets
alarmed the ladies; then they rested and conversed again.  The mammas
talked about their children, how sadly the silver basket needed a new
lining, and what there was to be for dinner.  The teaspoons whispered
sweetly together, as young ladies do,--one declaring that rouge powder
was not as good as it used to be, another lamenting the sad effect of
eggs upon her complexion, and all smiled amiably upon the forks, who
stood about discussing wines and cigars, for both lived in the
sideboard, and were brought out after dinner, so the forks knew a great
deal about such matters, and found them very interesting, as all
gentlemen seem to do.
Presently some one mentioned bicycles, and what fine rides the boys of
the family told about. The other fellows proposed a race; and before
Tony could grasp the possibility of such a thing, it was done.  Nothing
easier, for there stood a pile of plates, and just turning them on their
edges, the forks got astride, and the big wheels spun away as if a whole
bicycle club had suddenly arrived.
