In all my idle speculations I am greatly assisted by various legends
connected with my venerable house, which are current in the
neighbourhood, and are so numerous that there is scarce a cupboard or
corner that has not some dismal story of its own.  When I first
entertained thoughts of becoming its tenant, I was assured that it was
haunted from roof to cellar, and I believe that the bad opinion in which
my neighbours once held me, had its rise in my not being torn to pieces,
or at least distracted with terror, on the night I took possession; in
either of which cases I should doubtless have arrived by a short cut at
the very summit of popularity.
But traditions and rumours all taken into account, who so abets me in
every fancy and chimes with my every thought, as my dear deaf friend? and
how often have I cause to bless the day that brought us two together!  Of
all days in the year I rejoice to think that it should have been
Christmas Day, with which from childhood we associate something friendly,
hearty, and sincere.
I had walked out to cheer myself with the happiness of others, and, in
the little tokens of festivity and rejoicing, of which the streets and
houses present so many upon that day, had lost some hours.  Now I stopped
to look at a merry party hurrying through the snow on foot to their place
of meeting, and now turned back to see a whole coachful of children
safely deposited at the welcome house.  At one time, I admired how
carefully the working man carried the baby in its gaudy hat and feathers,
and how his wife, trudging patiently on behind, forgot even her care of
her gay clothes, in exchanging greeting with the child as it crowed and
laughed over the father’s shoulder; at another, I pleased myself with
some passing scene of gallantry or courtship, and was glad to believe
that for a season half the world of poverty was gay.
As the day closed in, I still rambled through the streets, feeling a
companionship in the bright fires that cast their warm reflection on the
windows as I passed, and losing all sense of my own loneliness in
imagining the sociality and kind-fellowship that everywhere prevailed.
At length I happened to stop before a Tavern, and, encountering a Bill of
Fare in the window, it all at once brought it into my head to wonder what
kind of people dined alone in Taverns upon Christmas Day.
Solitary men are accustomed, I suppose, unconsciously to look upon
solitude as their own peculiar property.  I had sat alone in my room on
many, many anniversaries of this great holiday, and had never regarded it
but as one of universal assemblage and rejoicing.  I had excepted, and
with an aching heart, a crowd of prisoners and beggars; but _these_ were
not the men for whom the Tavern doors were open.  Had they any customers,
or was it a mere form?—a form, no doubt.
