‘Your rapier, worthy sir!’
At the instant that he pronounced these words Graham started, and falling
back some paces, laid his hand upon the dagger in his belt.
‘You are the man whose horse I used to hold before the Bowyer’s door?
You are that man?  Speak!’
‘Out, you ’prentice hound!’ said the other.
‘You are he!  I know you well now!’ cried Graham.  ‘Let no man step
between us two, or I shall be his murderer.’  With that he drew his
dagger, and rushed in upon him.
The stranger had drawn his weapon from the scabbard ready for the
scrutiny, before a word was spoken.  He made a thrust at his assailant,
but the dagger which Graham clutched in his left hand being the dirk in
use at that time for parrying such blows, promptly turned the point
aside.  They closed.  The dagger fell rattling on the ground, and Graham,
wresting his adversary’s sword from his grasp, plunged it through his
heart.  As he drew it out it snapped in two, leaving a fragment in the
dead man’s body.
All this passed so swiftly that the bystanders looked on without an
effort to interfere; but the man was no sooner down than an uproar broke
forth which rent the air.  The attendant rushing through the gate
proclaimed that his master, a nobleman, had been set upon and slain by a
citizen; the word quickly spread from mouth to mouth; Saint Paul’s
Cathedral, and every book-shop, ordinary, and smoking-house in the
churchyard poured out its stream of cavaliers and their followers, who
mingling together in a dense tumultuous body, struggled, sword in hand,
towards the spot.
With equal impetuosity, and stimulating each other by loud cries and
shouts, the citizens and common people took up the quarrel on their side,
and encircling Master Graham a hundred deep, forced him from the gate.
In vain he waved the broken sword above his head, crying that he would
die on London’s threshold for their sacred homes.  They bore him on, and
ever keeping him in the midst, so that no man could attack him, fought
their way into the city.
The clash of swords and roar of voices, the dust and heat and pressure,
the trampling under foot of men, the distracted looks and shrieks of
women at the windows above as they recognised their relatives or lovers
in the crowd, the rapid tolling of alarm-bells, the furious rage and
passion of the scene, were fearful.  Those who, being on the outskirts of
each crowd, could use their weapons with effect, fought desperately,
while those behind, maddened with baffled rage, struck at each other over
the heads of those before them, and crushed their own fellows.  Wherever
the broken sword was seen above the people’s heads, towards that spot the
cavaliers made a new rush.  Every one of these charges was marked by
sudden gaps in the throng where men were trodden down, but as fast as
they were made, the tide swept over them, and still the multitude pressed
on again, a confused mass of swords, clubs, staves, broken plumes,
fragments of rich cloaks and doublets, and angry, bleeding faces, all
mixed up together in inextricable disorder.
