‘You know, Gog, old friend, that when we animate these shapes which the
Londoners of old assigned (and not unworthily) to the guardian genii of
their city, we are susceptible of some of the sensations which belong to
human kind.  Thus when I taste wine, I feel blows; when I relish the one,
I disrelish the other.  Therefore, Gog, the more especially as your arm
is none of the lightest, keep your good staff by your side, else we may
chance to differ.  Peace be between us!’
‘Amen!’ said the other, leaning his staff in the window-corner.  ‘Why did
you laugh just now?’
‘To think,’ replied the Giant Magog, laying his hand upon the cask, ‘of
him who owned this wine, and kept it in a cellar hoarded from the light
of day, for thirty years,—“till it should be fit to drink,” quoth he.  He
was twoscore and ten years old when he buried it beneath his house, and
yet never thought that he might be scarcely “fit to drink” when the wine
became so.  I wonder it never occurred to him to make himself unfit to be
eaten.  There is very little of him left by this time.’
                         [Picture: Gog and Magog]
‘The night is waning,’ said Gog mournfully.
‘I know it,’ replied his companion, ‘and I see you are impatient.  But
look.  Through the eastern window—placed opposite to us, that the first
beams of the rising sun may every morning gild our giant faces—the
moon-rays fall upon the pavement in a stream of light that to my fancy
sinks through the cold stone and gushes into the old crypt below.  The
night is scarcely past its noon, and our great charge is sleeping
heavily.’
They ceased to speak, and looked upward at the moon.  The sight of their
large, black, rolling eyes filled Joe Toddyhigh with such horror that he
could scarcely draw his breath.  Still they took no note of him, and
appeared to believe themselves quite alone.
‘Our compact,’ said Magog after a pause, ‘is, if I understand it, that,
instead of watching here in silence through the dreary nights, we
entertain each other with stories of our past experience; with tales of
the past, the present, and the future; with legends of London and her
sturdy citizens from the old simple times.  That every night at midnight,
when St. Paul’s bell tolls out one, and we may move and speak, we thus
discourse, nor leave such themes till the first gray gleam of day shall
strike us dumb.  Is that our bargain, brother?’
‘Yes,’ said the Giant Gog, ‘that is the league between us who guard this
city, by day in spirit, and by night in body also; and never on ancient
holidays have its conduits run wine more merrily than we will pour forth
our legendary lore.  We are old chroniclers from this time hence.  The
crumbled walls encircle us once more, the postern-gates are closed, the
drawbridge is up, and pent in its narrow den beneath, the water foams and
struggles with the sunken starlings.  Jerkins and quarter-staves are in
the streets again, the nightly watch is set, the rebel, sad and lonely in
his Tower dungeon, tries to sleep and weeps for home and children.  Aloft
upon the gates and walls are noble heads glaring fiercely down upon the
dreaming city, and vexing the hungry dogs that scent them in the air, and
tear the ground beneath with dismal howlings.  The axe, the block, the
rack, in their dark chambers give signs of recent use.  The Thames,
floating past long lines of cheerful windows whence come a burst of music
and a stream of light, bears suddenly to the Palace wall the last red
stain brought on the tide from Traitor’s Gate.  But your pardon, brother.
The night wears, and I am talking idly.’
