I lived alone here for a long time without any friend or acquaintance.
In the course of my wanderings by night and day, at all hours and
seasons, in city streets and quiet country parts, I came to be familiar
with certain faces, and to take it to heart as quite a heavy
disappointment if they failed to present themselves each at its
accustomed spot.  But these were the only friends I knew, and beyond them
I had none.
It happened, however, when I had gone on thus for a long time, that I
formed an acquaintance with a deaf gentleman, which ripened into intimacy
and close companionship.  To this hour, I am ignorant of his name.  It is
his humour to conceal it, or he has a reason and purpose for so doing.
In either case, I feel that he has a right to require a return of the
trust he has reposed; and as he has never sought to discover my secret, I
have never sought to penetrate his.  There may have been something in
this tacit confidence in each other flattering and pleasant to us both,
and it may have imparted in the beginning an additional zest, perhaps, to
our friendship.  Be this as it may, we have grown to be like brothers,
and still I only know him as the deaf gentleman.
I have said that retirement has become a habit with me.  When I add, that
the deaf gentleman and I have two friends, I communicate nothing which is
inconsistent with that declaration.  I spend many hours of every day in
solitude and study, have no friends or change of friends but these, only
see them at stated periods, and am supposed to be of a retired spirit by
the very nature and object of our association.
We are men of secluded habits, with something of a cloud upon our early
fortunes, whose enthusiasm, nevertheless, has not cooled with age, whose
spirit of romance is not yet quenched, who are content to ramble through
the world in a pleasant dream, rather than ever waken again to its harsh
realities.  We are alchemists who would extract the essence of perpetual
youth from dust and ashes, tempt coy Truth in many light and airy forms
from the bottom of her well, and discover one crumb of comfort or one
grain of good in the commonest and least-regarded matter that passes
through our crucible.  Spirits of past times, creatures of imagination,
and people of to-day are alike the objects of our seeking, and, unlike
the objects of search with most philosophers, we can insure their coming
at our command.
The deaf gentleman and I first began to beguile our days with these
fancies, and our nights in communicating them to each other.  We are now
four.  But in my room there are six old chairs, and we have decided that
the two empty seats shall always be placed at our table when we meet, to
remind us that we may yet increase our company by that number, if we
should find two men to our mind.  When one among us dies, his chair will
always be set in its usual place, but never occupied again; and I have
caused my will to be so drawn out, that when we are all dead the house
shall be shut up, and the vacant chairs still left in their accustomed
places.  It is pleasant to think that even then our shades may, perhaps,
assemble together as of yore we did, and join in ghostly converse.
