The Wars of _Ireland_ being at an End, and the Articles of _Limerick_
Sign'd, about 15000 regular Troops were Transported into _France_,
besides several Thousands of others, who all proved as useful to the
Monarch of _France_ in his Wars in _Italy, Spain, Germany, &c._ as they
had been in making a Three Years Diversion in _Ireland_, so happy was
_France_ in making a Politick use of King _James's_ Misfortune, that
_Lewis_ XIV was much a greater Gainer by his being Banish'd, than if he
had remain'd in the quiet Possession of his Throne. And now there were
several Speculations, what Method the _French_ King wou'd take to make
the World believe he had a Design to reinstall King _James_. The most
direct Means was to attempt a Descent, but this was impracticable by the
way of _Ireland_; for if an Army of 30000 Men cou'd not keep it when
they were actually in Possession of it, there was no likelyhood of their
succeeding in a Descent, nor was it probable, that _France_ would add
more Force to them who had so often refus'd them when they were in
Circumstances to receive. The most favourable Interpreters of the
_French_ King's Politicks, began now to think he had laid all Thoughts
of a Restoration aside. King _James_'s Troops were employ'd and
scatter'd where they were useless upon that Design, and his Court was
modell'd, as if nothing more should be attempted. However it was thought
convenient still to carry the Juggle on, and several Methods were made
use of to seduce the poor Jacobites in _England_ and _St. Germains_,
that their Work was still going on. Great Respect was shown to the Court
of _St. Germains_ by his Most Christian Majesty, with repeated
Assurances to stand by them: In the mean time I was permitted to leave
the Army, and solace my self for two or three Months at _Paris_, where,
by the Assistance of my old Friend ready Money, I made my self very
acceptable. It was my Happiness hitherto never to be engaged in an
Intrigue with the Fair Sex; for though several of my Station have
diverted themselves that way with much prejudice to their Business, yet
I was always so bent upon War, that I cou'd never find spare Hours for
such trifling Conversation, for that was the Notion I had of it. A
general Whining and Pining away for a Trolloping Girl, was to me a very
awker'd and inconsistent Piece of Pageantry; however, I had been often
told by Persons of Experience, that no Man had so just an Idea of the
World, as he that had been well hamper'd and sower'd by a Love Intrigue;
for though Women appear to be only Spectators, and to bear no Sway in
the Politicks of the World, yet underhand, the Fate of Kingdoms often
hung at their Girdles, and the wisest of Princes often hazarded the
Repose of his People for an Hours Dalliance with some Coquet and
diverting Creature of the fair Sex. I cannot tell well how it happen'd,
but I suppose by not resisting the first impressions of this kind, I
found my self far gone in an Intrigue, and that without either Thought
or Design; but I understood afterwards that a Breach of Idleness being
espy'd in my Conduct, the Roving Deity seiz'd the Advantage and enter'd
Sword in Hand. The Gentlewoman who drew me into this Snare, was no
otherwise my Acquaintance than by an accidental Visit; but I was so much
a Philosopher, as to know that where there is a Sympathy of Humours, all
other Considerations are neglected, and a _Turk_ with those Advantages,
is as capable to make a Conquest as a _Christian_. I had at my first
entrance upon the Stage of the World made a double Promise to my self,
the one was never to hearken to a Love Affair till I had acquired a
Stock of Experience, and Money to make that Passion Serviceable and of
real Use in an honourable Way; the other was not to graft upon a Foreign
Stock; but I was forc'd to humble my self under a violation of both
these Purposes; for the Object of my Passion was a _Spanish_ young Lady
though of _Irish_ Extraction, her Family Transporting themselves
thither about the middle of Queen _Elizabeth_'s Reign. Now I had two or
three Difficulties to struggle with relating to this Affair: in the
first place, I had not as yet imparted the Secret to the young Lady;
again, my Brother's Example gave me grounds to think I cou'd not avoid a
Quarrel with some of her Relations; but what chiefly frighted me, was
the Plague of Wedding, in case we were both of a Mind, for a keen Hound
is not easily call'd off from a hot Scent, till he has either caught or
lost his Game. In the midst of these Perplexities, I judg'd 'twou'd be a
wise Part to disclose my self to some Persons of Experience in these
Matters; for in all the Skirmishes and Sieges I had been at, they never
threw me into such a Consternation and Absence of Thought; and
accordingly I met with an old Adept in these Affairs. When he heard my
Case, after two or three Turns he approach'd me with the serious Air of
a Physician, and I thinking he had Design to feel my Pulse, I offer'd
him my Hand, which he only shook very gently, saying, Young Man, all the
Comfort I can give you is, that you must buy your Knowledge by
Experience as I and many others have done before you. All Advice is lost
upon a Person in Love. Should I advice you to quit the Enterprize, I
know you would not do it. A Halter or an _East-India_ Voyage may do you
Service in Case you are refused. In a Word, whatever I advised you to
you will certainly do the contrary; However, that you may be said to
have lost your Time in coming hither, hasten to the young Lady, tell her
in a Franck Cavalier way how Things are with you; give all the vent you
can to your Passion; if it blows over, you will be a wary Man hereafter,
if it ends in Wedlock, any Body will inform you of the Consequences.
While the old Gentleman was entertaining me with this Lesson, my Head
grew so dizy, as if some invisible Hand had turn'd it round like a Gigg,
so I left him abruptly, and went directly to my Lodgings to Bed, but to
this Day I cannot tell, whether I went a Foot or in a Coach my Head was
in such a Confusion. The next Morning finding my ideas better rang'd, I
propos'd to seize the first Opportunity to let the Lady understand the
Difficulties I struggled under upon her Account; but the Nature of our
Visits was such, that I cou'd not do it any otherwise than by Letter:
Thus when I had once broke the Ice, and that too with a fair Prospect
of making Advances, in the next Place I gain'd the Maid by the usual
Methods that such Creatures are render'd Obsequious, and under her
Conduct methoughts I sail'd prosperously on without the least Rub to my
suppos'd Happiness; 'tis true I was at a constant Charge of Presents,
Treats, and now and then a Serenade according to the _Spanish_ Customs.
But I remember at one of these Midnight Scenes of Gallantry, I saw
something that gave me a great deal of Uneasiness; drawing up my Musick
under the Lady's Window, besides her Face, which was at the Casement
wide open, I saw the Reflexion of a Periwig move towards the Corner of
the Window; this made me vehemently suspect somebody had a better place
in her Affections than my self, for there was no Male kind belonging to
the Family, her Father and Brother, as she told me at other Times, being
in _Spain_, to take care of some Effects they expected by the Flota from
the _West Indies_. However, I endeavour'd to smother this Impression of
Jealousy, attributing the Mistake to the Circumstances of Night, Candle
Light, or some other false Medium that might ground it, so I was
resolv'd to take no notice of it at my next Visit. But it was not long
before I met with another Occasion of Jealousy, which cou'd not so
easily be banish'd out of my Head. Sitting in the Chocolate House, a
young Gentleman was giving himself Airs with a Snuff-box, which to my
Eye (and it was my Interest to observe it very narrowly) appear'd to be
the very same I had some time before presented the Lady with, and as an
aggravating Circumstance, in taking Notice of the Gentleman's Periwig,
it had the same Form with the Reflexion I saw up in the Lady's Chamber
Window, _vid_. a flat Top, neither rais'd nor parted in the Middle,
which spoke it to be a Piece of _English_ Furniture. The Sight of the
snuff-box drew all my Blood into my Heart, and left my pale Cheeks to
account for the Consternation, wherefore not able to contain my self had
I kept my Ground, I flung out of the Chocolate House, not unobserv'd by
the Company to be in some Disorder; but when they look'd out of the
Window and saw me stand gazing in the middle of the Street, (for my
Motion thither was purely Animal, having no thought whither I was going)
it encreas'd their Surprise. However, at three Steps I was got again
into the Chocolate House, and with a galliard Air, addressing my self
to the Gentleman with the Snuff box, _Sir_, said I, _I confirm the Gift,
and may all sniffling Fools that are in Love be serv'd like me_. I
allow'd no Time for a Reply, but bolting again into the Street, it came
into my Head that perhaps two Snuff-boxes might be so much alike, as not
to observe the difference without confronting 'em. This Thought gave me
a Curiosity to step into a Toyshop, where I desired to have a Sight of
the newest fashion'd Snuff-boxes, and when among others, I saw above
half a Dozen exactly like that I had made the Lady a Present of, a
Secret Confusion spread it self over my Soul to have given way to such
Suspicions. The Matyrdom accustom'd by such like Thoughts as these being
the usual Entertainment of Persons in my Condition, and I having read in
several Moralists, _That there can be no true Love without a Mixture of
Jealousy, which two rose proportionably, and that Jealousy was the
greatest Plague of Human Life_. These Considerations, I say, made me
Struggle hard to throw off the Tyranny I groan'd under, and it happen'd
very luckily for me that within a few Days after the young Lady was sent
for into _Spain_, so that I had in Election either to throw up all my
Expectations in _France_, and follow her, or Moralize a Week or two;
upon the Disappointment, and so recover my self again to my Senses,
which I quickly did by spending my Time in a Treatise of Algebra and
Fortifications. As for the Lady she parted without any Reluctance, and
it mortify'd me sensibly, that what I had made a Study and Business of,
was only her Diversion and Amusement; but I kept my Resolution never
more to divert my self that way, till I was effectually tramell'd.
