What my Jealousy, on my Landlord's Relation, had suggested, happen'd
accordingly: For about one in the Morning I was alarm'd with the Cry of
one of my Centinels, _Turn out for God's sake_; which he repeated, with
Vehemence, three or four times over. I took the Alarm, got up suddenly;
and with no little Difficulty got my Men into their Ranks, when the
Person who made the Outcry came running in, almost spent, and out of
Breath. It was the Centinel, that I had luckily plac'd about a Quarter
of a Mile off, who gave the Alarm, and his Musket flashing in the Pan,
without going off, he endeavour'd to supply with his Voice the Defect of
his Piece. I had just got my Men into their Ranks, in order to receive
the Enemy, when by the Moonlight, I discover'd a Party advancing upon
us. My out Centinel challeng'd 'em, and as I had precaution'd, they
answer'd, _Hispanioli_; though I knew 'em to be _French_.
However, on my Survey of our Situation by Day-light, having mark'd in my
Mind a proper Place for drawing up my Men in Case of an Attack, which
was too narrow to admit of more than two on a Breast; and which would
secure between us and the Enemy a Ditch of Water: I resolv'd to put in
practice what had entertain'd me so well in the Theory. To that Purpose
I order'd my first Rank to keep their Post, stand still and face the
Enemy, while the other two Ranks stooping should follow me to gain the
intended Station; which done, the first Rank had Orders to file off and
fall behind. All was perform'd in excellent Order; and I confess it was
with no little Pleasure, that I beheld the Enemy, for the best Part of
an Hour, in Consultation whether they should attack us or no. The
result, nevertheless, of that Consultation ended in this; that, seeing
us so well upon our Guard, it was most adviseable to draw off. They soon
put their Resolution into practice, which I was very glad to see; on
Examination a little before having found that my Predecessor, as in
other Things, had fail'd of Conduct in leaving me a Garrison without
Ammunition.
Next Morning I was very pleasingly surpriz'd with a handsome Present of
Wine, and some other necessary Refreshments. At first I made a little
Scruple and Hesitation whether or no to receive 'em; till the Bearer
assur'd me, that they were sent me from the Officers of the next
Garrison, who had made me a Visit the Night before, as a candid
Acknowledgment of my Conduct and good Behaviour. I return'd their
Compliment, that I hop'd I should never receive Men of Honour otherwise
than like a Man of Honour; which mightily pleas'd them. Every of which
Particulars the _Ghent Gazettier_ the Week after publish'd.
We had little to do except Marching and Counter-marching all the
Campaign after; till it was resolv'd in a Council of War, for the better
preserving of _Brussels_ from such Insults, as it had before sustain'd
from the _French_, during the Siege of _Namur_, to fortify _Anderlech_;
upon which our Regiment, as well as others, were commanded from our more
pacifick Posts to attend that Work. Our whole Army was under Movement to
cover that Resolution; and the Train fell to my Care and Command in the
March. There accompany'd the Train a Fellow, seemingly ordinary, yet
very officious and courteous, being ready to do any thing for any
Person, from the Officer to the common Soldier. He travell'd along and
mov'd with the Train, sometimes on Foot, and sometimes getting a Ride in
some one or other of the Waggons; but ever full of his Chit-chat and
Stories of Humour. By these insinuating Ways he had screw'd himself into
the general good Opinion; but the Waggoners especially grew particularly
fond of him. At the End of our March all our Powder-Waggons were plac'd
breast a-breast, and so close, that one miscarrying would leave little
doubt of the Fate of all the rest. This in the Camp we commonly call
_the Park_; and here it was that our new Guest, like another _Phaeton_,
though under Pretence of Weariness, not Ambition, got Leave of the very
last Carter to the Train to take a Nap in his Waggon. One who had
entertain'd a Jealousy of him, and had watch'd him, gave Information
against him; upon which he was seiz'd and brought to me as Captain of
the Guard. I caus'd him to be search'd; and upon search, finding Match,
Touchwood, and other dangerous Materials upon him; I sent him and them
away to the Provoe. Upon the Whole, a Council of War was call'd, at
which, upon a strict Examination, he confess'd himself a hir'd
Incendiary; and as such receiv'd his Sentence to be burnt in the Face of
the Army. The Execution was a Day or two after: When on the very Spot,
he further acknowledged, that on Sight or Noise of the Blow, it had been
concerted, that the _French_ Army should fall upon the Confederates
under those lamentable Circumstances.
