"'It's a way I have,' I said, pocketing them.
"'Some bloke's dropped 'em down the shaft,' he whispered, awed by the
circumstance.
"'It stands to reason,' said I.
"'I'll take charge of 'em,' he volunteered.
"'Nonsense!'
"'You'd better turn 'em over,' he threatened, 'or I stop the works.'
"'Pshaw!'
"And stop he did, between floors.
"'Young man,' I said, 'have you a mother?' (He looked serious, as though
regretting his act! and further to impress him I rolled up my right
sleeve with greatest care.) 'Are you prepared to die?' (I got a stealthy
crouch on, and put a cat-foot forward.) 'But a minute, a brief minute,
stands between you and eternity.' (Here I crooked my right hand into a
claw and slid the other foot up.) 'Young man, young man,' I trumpeted,
'in thirty seconds I shall tear your heart dripping from your bosom and
stoop to hear you shriek in hell.'
"It fetched him. He gave one whoop, the car shot down, and I was on the
drag. You see, Anak, it's a habit I can't shake off of leaving vivid
memories behind. No one ever forgets me.
"I had not got to the corner when I heard a familiar voice at my
shoulder:
"'Hello, Cinders! Which way?'
"It was Chi Slim, who had been with me once when I was thrown off a
freight in Jacksonville. 'Couldn't see 'em fer cinders,' he described
it, and the monica stuck by me.... Monica? From monos. The tramp
nickname.
"'Bound south,' I answered. 'And how's Slim?'
"'Bum. Bulls is horstile.'
"'Where's the push?'
"'At the hang-out. I'll put you wise.'
"'Who's the main guy?'
"'Me, and don't yer ferget it.'"
The lingo was rippling from Leith's lips, but perforce I stopped him.
"Pray translate. Remember, I am a foreigner."
"Certainly," he answered cheerfully. "Slim is in poor luck. Bull means
policeman. He tells me the bulls are hostile. I ask where the push is,
the gang he travels with. By putting me wise he will direct me to where
the gang is hanging out. The main guy is the leader. Slim claims that
distinction.
"Slim and I hiked out to a neck of woods just beyond town, and there was
the push, a score of husky hobos, charmingly located on the bank of a
little purling stream.
"'Come on, you mugs!' Slim addressed them. 'Throw yer feet! Here's
Cinders, an' we must do 'em proud.'
"All of which signifies that the hobos had better strike out and do some
lively begging in order to get the wherewithal to celebrate my return to
the fold after a year's separation. But I flashed my dough and Slim sent
several of the younger men off to buy the booze. Take my word for it,
Anak, it was a blow-out memorable in Trampdom to this day. It's amazing
the quantity of booze thirty plunks will buy, and it is equally amazing
the quantity of booze outside of which twenty stiffs will get. Beer
and cheap wine made up the card, with alcohol thrown in for the
blowd-in-the-glass stiffs. It was great--an orgy under the sky, a
contest of beaker-men, a study in primitive beastliness. To me there is
something fascinating in a drunken man, and were I a college president
I should institute P.G. psychology courses in practical drunkenness. It
would beat the books and compete with the laboratory.
