Then Laocoon, a priest of Apollo, stepped forth, and said to them:
"Unhappy people! what madness possesses you? Do ye think the enemy
gone? Do ye know Odysseus so little? There are Greek warriors hidden
in this horse, or else some other mischief is lurking there. Fear
the Greeks even when they bring gifts."
With these words, he thrust his spear into the flank of the horse,
and the arms of the hidden enemy clashed with a loud noise. Just then
two snakes of great size, sent by Athena, rose from the sea, and sprang
upon Laocoon and his two sons, and, coiling around them, bit them
to death. The Trojans, in great fear at the sight, took this as a
sign from the gods that the horse was sacred and that they must protect
it, and they moved it at once into their city, breaking down a part
of their wall to get it in.
Having done this, they gave themselves up to feasting and making merry,
without the slightest thought that any evil was in store for them.
But when night had come, and all were in a deep sleep, the ships of
the Greeks, which had been hiding all the while behind a neighboring
island, came back. The warriors who were concealed in the wooden horse
sprang out and rushing wildly through the city, slew the Trojans right
and left without mercy. From all sides came wailings and groans, and
the flames of the burning city rose up to the sky.
A deadly struggle took place between the Trojans and the Greeks. Priam
was slain, and Paris and many other heroes. The victory was to the
Greeks. Troy fell never to rise again, and the women and children
were led off to become slaves to their conquerors.
Thus was destroyed in one night the great and glorious city of Troy,
all on account of the crime which Paris had committed against the
laws of hospitality.
The trials of the Greeks were not yet at an end. After their victory
at Troy they embarked in their ships and started eagerly for their
homes. But Zeus prepared a sad fate for them, because Ajax had
violently dragged Cassandra, the beautiful daughter of Priam, from
the altar of Athena and had made her his slave. Thus many of the leaders
perished in the sea far from home, and some were cast on foreign shores
to die.
Menelaos was thrown by wind and waves on the island of Crete, and
he lost many of the ships on the cliffs. Thence he strayed to the
island of Cyprus, noted for its mines; and he roved through other
lands until he came to Egypt, where he wandered about for eight years,
when he returned to Sparta, taking Helen with him. He became
reconciled to his wife, and they lived a quiet life far removed from
the enchantments of the wily Aphrodite.
But the saddest fate of all overtook Agamemnon, who met his death
in his own house at the hands of his wife and brother.
