CHAPTER VI
ODYSSEUS CONSTRUCTS A RAFT AND LEAVES THE ISLAND
At daybreak the goddess gave Odysseus a large axe and a sharp adze,
and led him to the heights of the island, where the largest trees
grew. He went to work at once and cut down twenty trees, which he
hewed into proper shape, and then tied them together with ropes which
he himself made of bark.
In this way he built a raft which was very large and strong enough
to stand the onset of the waves. He wove a railing of willow and fitted
it around the sides of the raft, to protect himself against the dashing
waves; and he raised a strong mast with sails shaped to it, and tightly
bound by cords and ropes. He filled the crevices of the raft with
wax and pitch and attached a rudder.
At the end of the fourth day his work was all done, and his little
ship was ready to be launched. On the fifth day the beautiful goddess
prepared the hero a bath and gave him new garments fragrant with
perfumes. She went down to the boat with him and put on board a skin
of dark-red wine, a larger one full of water, and a bag of dainty
food. Then she bade Odysseus a kind farewell, and sent a gentle and
friendly wind to waft him over the waves.
Odysseus was wild with joy at the thought that he was really on his
way home once more. He spread his sails to catch the breeze and took
his seat at the helm, steering the vessel with great skill. He did
not dare to take any sleep, for he had to watch the sky and stars
constantly and use them as guides on his course. He sailed along in
this way seventeen days. On the eighteenth he spied land in the
distance. It was the land of the Phaeacians, lying like a dark spot
off in the sea.
Then Poseidon, who was returning from Ethiopia, saw him, and his wrath
grew hot against the hero. He raised up his head and said to himself:
"Alas! the gods have strangely changed their minds about Odysseus
during my absence in Africa. Behold! in a little while he will be
in the land of the Phaeacians, where he will find an end to his troubles.
Nevertheless, it is in my power to chastise him."
Speaking thus, Poseidon called the clouds together, and seizing his
trident he stirred up the sea; then he set loose all the winds until
there was a general hurricane, and he wrapped heaven and earth in
the thick darkness of night.
The mighty waves dashed over the raft, and Odysseus sank on his knees
and trembled. With a deep groan he said: "Ah me, unhappy! Am I to
bear more disasters? I fear that the warning of the goddess was too
true, and that I shall be for a long time cast about on the waves
before I reach home. With what dark clouds Zeus has shrouded the sky!
The storm grows wild. What terrible waves are these! Helplessly I
must perish. Happy the Greeks who fell before Troy, fighting for their
country! Would that I, too, had met death the day when the Trojans
hurled their spears at me as they strove to take the body of Achilles.
If I had died then, the Greeks would have buried me with great honors.
Now I shall die an inglorious death."
