He ended, and King Alkinoos stepped forward, for the young men were
all silent. "Stranger," he said, "thou art our dearly loved guest,
and no one can doubt thy bravery. We do not boast that we are fine
boxers or wrestlers. We excel in the dance and are unsurpassed in
sailing ships. Come, then, young men, show your skill in dancing,
that our guest may tell his people when he reaches his home how much
we outdo all others in that art. And let a herald hasten to the palace
and bring the lyre of Demodokos, which has been left there."
The young men arranged themselves in two rows on the polished floors
and began the dance, while the minstrel, standing in their midst,
played on the lyre and sang most sweetly. Odysseus looked on and
greatly admired the swift and rhythmical movements of their feet.
All danced very well; but two of the sons of the king came out and
danced alone, for none of the others equalled them. One of them held
a golden ball in his hand, and bending backward threw it so high that
it seemed to touch the clouds. The other sprang up and caught it easily
before it touched the ground.
They both danced, going through intricate and rhythmical figures,
while the other young men stood around in a circle and clapped their
hands, keeping time. Then Odysseus said to Alkinoos: "Truly, no one
excels the Phaeacian princes in dancing. I see the twinkling of their
feet with amazement."
These words pleased Alkinoos greatly, and he said to his people:
"Listen, my chiefs, for our guest seems to be a wise man. It becomes
us now to bestow upon him the gifts of hospitality. In this land there
are twelve kings. I am the thirteenth. Let each one of us bring a
fine cloak, and a tunic, and a talent of gold, that our guest may
see them before he partakes of the evening banquet. And let Euryalos,
who spoke such scoffing words to him, try to win back his friendship
and bring a costly gift." All the chiefs approved the words of King
Alkinoos, and each one sent a servant to his house to bring a valuable
present.
Euryalos cheerfully obeyed the king. He brought a brass sword with
a silver hilt to Odysseus, and said: "My father, if I have uttered
any offensive word to thee, may the winds scatter all remembrance
of it. May the gods grant thee a speedy return to thy country, where
thou shalt see thy wife and friends from whom thou hast so long been
separated."
Odysseus answered: "Hail to thee, also, my friend! May the gods give
thee all that there is good, and may no need of this sword ever come
to thee." Odysseus took the sword and threw it across his shoulders.
The sun had set, and the servants carried the gifts to the royal palace,
where the queen took care of them. King Alkinoos led the way to the
palace, his guest at his side and the princes following. When they
had taken their seats on high thrones, the king told his wife to lay
the royal presents in a chest, adding a much richer cloak and tunic
than anyone else had given as a gift from himself.
