“I know nothing of the story beyond what I can guess at,” said his
wife, addressing Monks after a short silence, “and I want to know
nothing, for it’s safer not. But I may ask you two questions, may I?”
“You may ask,” said Monks, with some show of surprise, “but whether I
answer or not is another question.”
“—Which makes three,” observed Mr. Bumble, essaying a stroke of
facetiousness.
“Is that what you expected to get from me?” demanded the matron.
“It is,” replied Monks. “The other question?—”
“What you propose to do with it. Can it be used against me?”
“Never,” rejoined Monks; “nor against me either. See here; but don’t
move a step forward, or your life’s not worth a bulrush!”
With these words he suddenly wheeled the table aside, and pulling an
iron ring in the boarding, threw back a large trap-door which opened
close at Mr. Bumble’s feet, and caused that gentleman to retire several
paces backward with great precipitation.
“Look down,” said Monks, lowering the lantern into the gulf. “Don’t
fear me. I could have let you down quietly enough when you were seated
over it, if that had been my game.”
Thus encouraged, the matron drew near to the brink, and even Mr. Bumble
himself, impelled by curiosity, ventured to do the same. The turbid
water, swollen by the heavy rain, was rushing rapidly on below, and
all other sounds were lost in the noise of its plashing and eddying
against the green and slimy piles. There had once been a water-mill
beneath, and the tide, foaming and chafing round the few rotten stakes,
and fragments of machinery, that yet remained, seemed to dart onward
with a new impulse when freed from the obstacles which had unavailingly
attempted to stem its headlong course.
“If you flung a man’s body down there, where would it be to-morrow
morning?” said Monks, swinging the lantern to and fro in the dark well.
“Twelve miles down the river, and cut to pieces besides,” replied
Bumble, recoiling at the very notion.
Monks drew the little packet from his breast, into which he had
hurriedly thrust it, and tying it firmly to a leaden weight which had
formed a part of some pulley, and was lying on the floor, dropped it
into the stream. It fell straight, and true as a die, clove the water
with a scarcely audible splash, and was gone.
[Illustration: _The evidence destroyed._]
The three looked into each other’s faces, and seemed to breathe more
freely.
“There!” said Monks, closing the trap-door, which fell heavily back
into its former position. “If the sea ever gives up its dead—as books
say it will—it will keep its gold and silver to itself, and that trash
among it. We have nothing more to say, and may break up our pleasant
party.”
“By all means,” observed Mr. Bumble with great alacrity.
“You’ll keep a quiet tongue in your head, will you?” said Monks, with a
threatening look. “I am not afraid of your wife.”
