Laying his skinny forefinger upon his lip, the Jew carried a candle to
the door as a man’s step was heard upon the stairs without, and reached
it at the same moment as the visiter, who coming hastily into the room,
was close upon the girl before he observed her.
It was Monks.
“Only one of my young people,” said the Jew, observing that Monks drew
back on beholding a stranger. “Don’t move, Nancy.”
The girl drew closer to the table, and glancing at Monks with an air
of careless levity, withdrew her eyes; but as he turned his towards
the Jew, she stole another look, so keen and searching, and full of
purpose, that if there had been any bystander to observe the change he
could hardly have believed the two looks to have proceeded from the
same person.
“Any news?” inquired the Jew.
“Great.”
“And—and—good?” asked the Jew hesitatingly, as though he feared to
vex the other man by being too sanguine.
“Not bad any way,” replied Monks with a smile. “I have been prompt
enough this time. Let me have a word with you.”
The girl drew closer to the table, and made no offer to leave the room,
although she could see that Monks was pointing to her. The Jew—perhaps
fearing that she might say something aloud about the money, if he
endeavoured to get rid of her—pointed upwards, and took Monks out of
the room.
“Not that infernal hole we were in before,” she could hear the man say
as they went up stairs. The Jew laughed, and making some reply which
did not reach her, seemed by the creaking of the boards to lead his
companion to the second story.
Before the sound of their footsteps had ceased to echo through the
house, the girl had slipped off her shoes, and drawing her gown
loosely over her head, and muffling her arms in it, stood at the door
listening with breathless interest. The moment the noise ceased she
glided from the room, ascended the stairs with incredible softness and
silence, and was lost in the gloom above.
The room remained deserted for a quarter of an hour or more; the girl
glided back with the same unearthly tread; and immediately afterwards
the two men were heard descending. Monks went at once into the street,
and the Jew crawled up stairs again for the money. When he returned,
the girl was adjusting her shawl and bonnet, as if preparing to be gone.
“Why, Nance,” exclaimed the Jew, starting back as he put down the
candle, “how pale you are!”
“Pale!” echoed the girl, shading her eyes with her hands as if to look
steadily at him.
“Quite horrible,” said the Jew. “What have you been doing to yourself?”
“Nothing that I know of, except sitting in this close place for I don’t
know how long and all,” replied the girl carelessly. “Come, let me get
back; that’s a dear.”
With a sigh for every piece of money, Fagin told the amount into her
hand, and they parted without more conversation than interchanging a
“good-night.”
