"The words were nothing, but as she uttered them the color came up
beautifully over all her face, and her eyes filled as they looked
away from mine. Then I knew that she loved me, and my secret broke
out half against my will. Margaret was forced to listen, for I would
not let her go, but she seemed to harden herself against me, growing
colder, stiller, statelier, as I went on, and when I said in my
desperate way,--
"'You should love me, for we are bid to love our enemies,' she
flashed an indignant look at me and said,--
"'I will not love what I cannot respect! Come to me a loyal man, and
see what answer I shall give you.'
"Then she went away. It was the wisest thing she could have done,
for absence did more to change me than an ocean of tears, a year of
exhortations. Lying there, I missed her every hour of the day,
recalled every gentle act, kind word, and fair example she had given
me. I contrasted my own belief with hers, and found a new
significance in the words honesty and honor, and, remembering her
fidelity to principle, was ashamed of my own treason to God and to
herself. Education, prejudice, and interest, are difficult things to
overcome, and that was the hottest fight I ever passed through,
for, as I tell you, I was a coward. But love and loyalty won the
day, and, asking no quarter, the Rebel surrendered."
"Phil Beaufort, you're a brick!" cried Dick, with a sounding slap on
his comrade's shoulder.
"A brand snatched from the burnin'. Hallelujah!" chanted Flint,
seesawing with excitement.
"Then you went to find your wife? How? Where?" asked Thorn,
forgetting vigilance in interest.
"Friend Bent hated war so heartily that he would have nothing to do
with paroles, exchanges, or any martial process whatever, but bade
me go when and where I liked, remembering to do by others as I had
been done by. Before I was well enough to go, however, I managed, by
means of Copperhead influence and returned prisoners, to send a
letter to my father and receive an answer. You can imagine what both
contained; and so I found myself penniless, but not poor, an
outcast, but not alone. Old Bent treated me like a prodigal son, and
put money in my purse; his pretty daughters loved me for Margaret's
sake, and gave me a patriotic salute all round when I left them, the
humblest, happiest man in Pennsylvania. Margaret once said to me
that this was the time for deeds, not words; that no man should
stand idle, but serve the good cause with head, heart, and hand, no
matter in what rank; for in her eyes a private fighting for liberty
was nobler than a dozen generals defending slavery. I remembered
that, and, not having influential friends to get me a commission,
enlisted in one of her own Virginia regiments, knowing that no act
of mine would prove my sincerity like that. You should have seen her
face when I walked in upon her, as she sat alone, busied with the
army work, as I'd so often seen her sitting by my bed; it showed me
all she had been suffering in silence, all I should have lost had I
chosen darkness instead of light. She hoped and feared so much she
could not speak, neither could I, but dropped my cloak, and showed
her that, through love of her, I had become a soldier of the Flag.
How I love the coarse blue uniform! for when she saw it, she came to
me without a word and kept her promise in a month."
