With the charming, perversity of her sex in such matters, no sooner
had Dolly declared that she didn't like Mr. Bopp, than she began to
discover that she did; and so far from desiring "to slap him," a
tendency to regard him with peculiar good-will and tenderness
developed itself, much to her own surprise; for with all her
coquetry and seeming coldness, Dolly had a right womanly heart of
her own, though she had never acknowledged the fact till August Bopp
looked at her with so much love and longing in his honest eyes. Then
she found a little fear mingling with her regard, felt a strong
desire to be respected by him, discovered a certain something which
she called conscience, restraining a reckless use of her power, and,
soon after her lofty denial to Dick, was forced to own that Mr. Bopp
had become her master in the finer species of gymnastics that came
in with Adam and Eve, and have kept all creation turning somersets
ever since. Of course these discoveries were unconfessed, even to
that best bosom friend which any of us can have; yet her mother
suspected them, and, with much anxiety, saw all, yet held her peace,
knowing that her little daughter would, sooner or later, give her a
fuller confidence than could be demanded; and remembering the
happiest moments of her own happy past, when an older Dick wooed
another Dolly, she left that flower, which never can be forced, to
open at its own sweet will.
Meanwhile, Mr. Bopp, though carrying his heart upon his sleeve,
believed his secret buried in the deepest gloom, and enjoyed all the
delightful miseries lovers insist upon making for themselves. When
Dolly was quiet and absent, he became pensive, the lesson dragged,
and people fancied they were getting tired of the humbug; when Dolly
was blithe and bland, he grew radiant, exercised within an inch of
his life as a vent for his emotions, and people went home declaring
gymnastics to be the crowning triumph of the age; and when Dolly was
capricious, Mr. Bopp, became a bewildered weathercock, changing as
the wind changed, and dire was the confusion occasioned thereby.
Like the sage fowl in the story, Dick said nothing, but "kept up a
terrible thinking," and, not having had experience enough to know
that when a woman says No she is very apt to mean Yes, he took Dolly
at her word. Believing it to be his duty to warn "Old Bopp," he
resolved to do it like a Roman brother, regardless of his own
feelings or his sister's wrath, quite unconscious that the motive
power in the affair was a boyish love of ruling the young person who
ruled every one else.
Matters stood thus, when the town was electrified by a general
invitation to the annual jubilee at Jollyboys Hall, which this
spring flowered into a masquerade, and filled the souls of old and
young with visions of splendor, frolic, and fun. Being an amiable
old town, it gave itself up, like a kind grandma, to the wishes of
its children, let them put its knitting away, disturb its naps, keep
its hands busy with vanities of the flesh, and its mind in a state
of chaos for three mortal weeks. Young ladies were obscured by
tarletan fogs, behind which they concocted angels' wings, newspaper
gowns, Minnehaha's wampum, and Cinderella's slippers. Inspired but
incapable boys undertook designs that would have daunted a costumer
of the first water, fell into sloughs of despond, and, emerging,
settled down from peers and paladins into jovial tars, friar
waterproofs, and officers in miscellaneous uniforms. Fathers laughed
or grumbled at the whole thing and advanced pecuniary loans with
good or ill grace, as the case might be; but the mothers, whose
interest in their children's pleasure is a sort of evergreen that no
snows of time can kill, sewed spangles by the bushel, made
wildernesses of tissue-paper blossom as the rose, kept tempers
sweet, stomachs full, and domestic machinery working smoothly
through it all, by that maternal magic which makes them the human
providences of this naughty world.
