   Iago. Well, my good Lord, Ile doo't
   Oth. This Fortification (Gentlemen) shall we see't?
  Gent. Well waite vpon your Lordship.
Exeunt.
Scoena Tertia.
Enter Desdemona, Cassio, and aemilia.
  Des. Be thou assur'd (good Cassio) I will do
All my abilities in thy behalfe.
Aemil. Good Madam do:
I warrant it greeues my Husband,
As if the cause were his
   Des. Oh that's an honest Fellow, Do not doubt Cassio
But I will haue my Lord, and you againe
As friendly as you were
   Cassio. Bounteous Madam,
What euer shall become of Michael Cassio,
He's neuer any thing but your true Seruant
   Des. I know't: I thanke you: you do loue my Lord:
You haue knowne him long, and be you well assur'd
He shall in strangenesse stand no farther off,
Then in a politique distance
   Cassio. I, but Lady,
That policie may either last so long,
Or feede vpon such nice and waterish diet,
Or breede it selfe so out of Circumstances,
That I being absent, and my place supply'd,
My Generall will forget my Loue, and Seruice
   Des. Do not doubt that: before aemilia here,
I giue thee warrant of thy place. Assure thee,
If I do vow a friendship, Ile performe it
To the last Article. My Lord shall neuer rest,
Ile watch him tame, and talke him out of patience;
His Bed shall seeme a Schoole, his Boord a Shrift,
Ile intermingle euery thing he do's
With Cassio's suite: Therefore be merry Cassio,
For thy Solicitor shall rather dye,
Then giue thy cause away.
Enter Othello, and Iago.
Aemil. Madam, heere comes my Lord
   Cassio. Madam, Ile take my leaue
   Des. Why stay, and heare me speake
   Cassio. Madam, not now: I am very ill at ease,
Vnfit for mine owne purposes
   Des. Well, do your discretion.
Exit Cassio.
  Iago. Hah? I like not that
   Othel. What dost thou say?
  Iago. Nothing my Lord; or if- I know not what
   Othel. Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?
  Iago. Cassio my Lord? No sure, I cannot thinke it
That he would steale away so guilty-like,
Seeing your comming
   Oth. I do beleeue 'twas he
   Des. How now my Lord?
I haue bin talking with a Suitor heere,
A man that languishes in your displeasure
   Oth. Who is't you meane?
  Des. Why your Lieutenant Cassio: Good my Lord,
If I haue any grace, or power to moue you,
His present reconciliation take.
For if he be not one, that truly loues you,
That erres in Ignorance, and not in Cunning,
I haue no iudgement in an honest face.
I prythee call him backe
   Oth. Went he hence now?
  Des. I sooth; so humbled,
That he hath left part of his greefe with mee
To suffer with him. Good Loue, call him backe
   Othel. Not now (sweet Desdemon) some other time
   Des. But shall't be shortly?
  Oth. The sooner (Sweet) for you
   Des. Shall't be to night, at Supper?
  Oth. No, not to night
   Des. To morrow Dinner then?
  Oth. I shall not dine at home:
I meete the Captaines at the Cittadell
