'Well Piggywiggies,' said R. W., 'how de do to-night? What I was
thinking of, my dear,' to Mrs Wilfer already seated in a corner with
folded gloves, 'was, that as we have let our first floor so well, and as
we have now no place in which you could teach pupils even if pupils--'
'The milkman said he knew of two young ladies of the highest
respectability who were in search of a suitable establishment, and he
took a card,' interposed Mrs Wilfer, with severe monotony, as if she
were reading an Act of Parliament aloud. 'Tell your father whether it
was last Monday, Bella.'
'But we never heard any more of it, ma,' said Bella, the elder girl.
'In addition to which, my dear,' her husband urged, 'if you have no
place to put two young persons into--'
'Pardon me,' Mrs Wilfer again interposed; 'they were not young persons.
Two young ladies of the highest respectability. Tell your father, Bella,
whether the milkman said so.'
'My dear, it is the same thing.'
'No it is not,' said Mrs Wilfer, with the same impressive monotony.
'Pardon me!'
'I mean, my dear, it is the same thing as to space. As to space. If you
have no space in which to put two youthful fellow-creatures, however
eminently respectable, which I do not doubt, where are those youthful
fellow-creatures to be accommodated? I carry it no further than that.
And solely looking at it,' said her husband, making the stipulation at
once in a conciliatory, complimentary, and argumentative tone--'as I am
sure you will agree, my love--from a fellow-creature point of view, my
dear.'
'I have nothing more to say,' returned Mrs Wilfer, with a meek
renunciatory action of her gloves. 'It is as you think, R. W.; not as I
do.'
Here, the huffing of Miss Bella and the loss of three of her men at a
swoop, aggravated by the coronation of an opponent, led to that young
lady's jerking the draught-board and pieces off the table: which her
sister went down on her knees to pick up.
'Poor Bella!' said Mrs Wilfer.
'And poor Lavinia, perhaps, my dear?' suggested R. W.
'Pardon me,' said Mrs Wilfer, 'no!'
It was one of the worthy woman's specialities that she had an amazing
power of gratifying her splenetic or worldly-minded humours by extolling
her own family: which she thus proceeded, in the present case, to do.
'No, R. W. Lavinia has not known the trial that Bella has known. The
trial that your daughter Bella has undergone, is, perhaps, without
a parallel, and has been borne, I will say, Nobly. When you see your
daughter Bella in her black dress, which she alone of all the family
wears, and when you remember the circumstances which have led to
her wearing it, and when you know how those circumstances have been
sustained, then, R. W., lay your head upon your pillow and say, "Poor
Lavinia!"'
Here, Miss Lavinia, from her kneeling situation under the table, put in
that she didn't want to be 'poored by pa', or anybody else.
