Rummel: Full steam, Mr. Tonnesen.
Hilmar (coming nearer): Really?
Rorlund: How is that?
Mrs. Bernick (at the verandah door): Karsten, dear, what is it that--?
Bernick:  My dear Betty, how can it interest you? (To the three men.)
We must get out lists of subscribers, and the sooner the better.
Obviously our four names must head the list. The positions we occupy in
the community makes it our duty to make ourselves as prominent as
possible in the affair.
Sandstad: Obviously, Mr. Bernick.
Rummel: The thing shall go through, Bernick; I swear it shall!
Bernick: Oh, I have not the least anticipation of failure. We must see
that we work, each one among the circle of his own acquaintances; and
if we can point to the fact that the scheme is exciting a lively
interest in all ranks of society, then it stands to reason that our
Municipal Corporation will have to contribute its share.
Mrs. Bernick: Karsten, you really must come out here and tell us--
Bernick: My dear Betty, it is an affair that does not concern ladies at
all.
Hilmar: Then you are really going to support this railway scheme after
all?
Bernick: Yes, naturally.
Rorlund: But last year, Mr. Bernick--
Bernick: Last year it was quite another thing. At that time it was a
question of a line along the coast--
Vigeland:  Which would have been quite superfluous, Mr. Rorlund;
because, of course, we have our steamboat service--
Sandstad:  And would have been quite unreasonably costly--
Rummel:  Yes, and would have absolutely ruined certain important
interests in the town.
Bernick: The main point was that it would not have been to the
advantage of the community as a whole. That is why I opposed it, with
the result that the inland line was resolved upon.
Hilmar:  Yes, but surely that will not touch the towns about here.
Bernick: It will eventually touch our town, my dear Hilmar, because we
are going to build a branch line here.
Hilmar: Aha--a new scheme, then?
Rummel: Yes, isn't it a capital scheme? What?
Rorlund: Hm!--
Vigeland: There is no denying that it looks as though Providence had
just planned the configuration of the country to suit a branch line.
Rorlund: Do you really mean it, Mr. Vigeland?
Bernick: Yes, I must confess it seems to me as if it had been the hand
of Providence that caused me to take a journey on business this spring,
in the course of which I happened to traverse a valley through which I
had never been before. It came across my mind like a flash of lightning
that this was where we could carry a branch line down to our town. I
got an engineer to survey the neighbourhood, and have here the
provisional calculations and estimate; so there is nothing to hinder us.
Mrs. Bernick (who is still with the other ladies at the verandah door):
But, my dear Karsten, to think that you should have kept it all a
secret from us!
