Rorlund: You? Pardon me, Miss Hessel, but what do you propose to do in
our Society?
Lona: I will let some fresh air into it, Mr. Parson.
ACT II
(SCENE.--The same room. MRS. BERNICK is sitting alone at the
work-table, sewing. BERNICK comes in from the right, wearing his hat
and gloves and carrying a stick.)
Mrs. Bernick: Home already, Karsten?
Bernick: Yes, I have made an appointment with a man.
Mrs. Bernick (with a sigh): Oh yes, I suppose Johan is coming up here
again.
Bernick: With a man, I said. (Lays down his hat.) What has become of
all the ladies today?
Mrs. Bernick: Mrs. Rummel and Hilda hadn't time to come.
Bernick: Oh!--did they send any excuse?
Mrs. Bernick: Yes, they had so much to do at home.
Bernick: Naturally. And of course the others are not coming either?
Mrs. Bernick: No, something has prevented them today, too.
Bernick: I could have told you that, beforehand. Where is Olaf?
Mrs. Bernick: I let him go out a little with Dina.
Bernick: Hm--she is a giddy little baggage. Did you see how she at once
started making a fuss of Johan yesterday?
Mrs. Bernick: But, my dear Karsten, you know Dina knows nothing
whatever of--
Bernick: No, but in any case Johan ought to have had sufficient tact
not to pay her any attention. I saw quite well, from his face, what
Vigeland thought of it.
Mrs. Bernick (laying her sewing down on her lap): Karsten, can you
imagine what his objective is in coming here?
Bernick: Well--I know he has a farm over there, and I fancy he is not
doing particularly well with it; she called attention yesterday to the
fact that they were obliged to travel second class--
Mrs. Bernick: Yes, I am afraid it must be something of that sort. But
to think of her coming with him! She! After the deadly insult she
offered you!
Bernick: Oh, don't think about that ancient history.
Mrs. Bernick: How can I help thinking of it just now? After all, he is
my brother--still, it is not on his account that I am distressed, but
because of all the unpleasantness it would mean for you. Karsten, I am
so dreadfully afraid!
Bernick: Afraid of what?
Mrs. Bernick: Isn't it possible that they may send him to prison for
stealing that money from your mother?
Bernick: What rubbish! Who can prove that the money was stolen?
Mrs. Bernick: The whole town knows it, unfortunately; and you know you
said yourself.
Bernick: I said nothing. The town knows nothing whatever about the
affair; the whole thing was no more than idle rumour.
Mrs. Bernick: How magnanimous you are, Karsten!
Bernick: Do not let us have any more of these reminiscences, please!
You don't know how you torture me by raking all that up. (Walks up and
down; then flings his stick away from him.) And to think of their
coming home now--just now, when it is particularly necessary for me
that I should stand well in every respect with the town and with the
Press. Our newspaper men will be sending paragraphs to the papers in
the other towns about here. Whether I receive them well, or whether I
receive them ill, it will all be discussed and talked over. They will
rake up all those old stories--as you do. In a community like
ours--(Throws his gloves down on the table.) And I have not a soul here
to whom I can talk about it and to whom I can go for support.
