   Sing on! sing on! let the dull world grow young,
      Let elemental things take form again,
   And the old shapes of Beauty walk among
      The simple garths and open crofts, as when
   The son of Leto bare the willow rod,
   And the soft sheep and shaggy goats followed the boyish God.
   Sing on! sing on! and Bacchus will be here
      Astride upon his gorgeous Indian throne,
   And over whimpering tigers shake the spear
      With yellow ivy crowned and gummy cone,
   While at his side the wanton Bassarid
   Will throw the lion by the mane and catch the mountain kid!
   Sing on! and I will wear the leopard skin,
      And steal the mooned wings of Ashtaroth,
   Upon whose icy chariot we could win
      Citharon in an hour ere the froth
   Has over-brimmed the wine-vat or the Faun
   Ceased from the treading! ay, before the flickering lamp of dawn
   Has scared the hooting owlet to its nest,
      And warned the bat to close its filmy vans,
   Some Manad girl with vine-leaves on her breast
      Will filch their beech-nuts from the sleeping Pans
   So softly that the little nested thrush
   Will never wake, and then with shrilly laugh and leap will rush
   Down the green valley where the fallen dew
      Lies thick beneath the elm and count her store,
   Till the brown Satyrs in a jolly crew
      Trample the loosestrife down along the shore,
   And where their horned master sits in state
   Bring strawberries and bloomy plums upon a wicker crate!
   Sing on! and soon with passion-wearied face
      Through the cool leaves Apollo’s lad will come,
   The Tyrian prince his bristled boar will chase
      Adown the chestnut-copses all a-bloom,
   And ivory-limbed, grey-eyed, with look of pride,
   After yon velvet-coated deer the virgin maid will ride.
   Sing on! and I the dying boy will see
      Stain with his purple blood the waxen bell
   That overweighs the jacinth, and to me
      The wretched Cyprian her woe will tell,
   And I will kiss her mouth and streaming eyes,
   And lead her to the myrtle-hidden grove where Adon lies!
   Cry out aloud on Itys! memory
      That foster-brother of remorse and pain
   Drops poison in mine ear,—O to be free,
      To burn one’s old ships! and to launch again
   Into the white-plumed battle of the waves
   And fight old Proteus for the spoil of coral-flowered caves!
   O for Medea with her poppied spell!
      O for the secret of the Colchian shrine!
   O for one leaf of that pale asphodel
      Which binds the tired brows of Proserpine,
   And sheds such wondrous dews at eve that she
   Dreams of the fields of Enna, by the far Sicilian sea,
   Where oft the golden-girdled bee she chased
      From lily to lily on the level mead,
   Ere yet her sombre Lord had bid her taste
      The deadly fruit of that pomegranate seed,
   Ere the black steeds had harried her away
   Down to the faint and flowerless land, the sick and sunless day.
   O for one midnight and as paramour
      The Venus of the little Melian farm!
   O that some antique statue for one hour
      Might wake to passion, and that I could charm
   The Dawn at Florence from its dumb despair,
   Mix with those mighty limbs and make that giant breast my lair!
