THE NEW HELEN
   WHERE hast thou been since round the walls of Troy
      The sons of God fought in that great emprise?
         Why dost thou walk our common earth again?
   Hast thou forgotten that impassioned boy,
         His purple galley and his Tyrian men
      And treacherous Aphrodite’s mocking eyes?
   For surely it was thou, who, like a star
      Hung in the silver silence of the night,
      Didst lure the Old World’s chivalry and might
   Into the clamorous crimson waves of war!
   Or didst thou rule the fire-laden moon?
      In amorous Sidon was thy temple built
         Over the light and laughter of the sea
      Where, behind lattice scarlet-wrought and gilt,
         Some brown-limbed girl did weave thee tapestry,
   All through the waste and wearied hours of noon;
   Till her wan cheek with flame of passion burned,
      And she rose up the sea-washed lips to kiss
   Of some glad Cyprian sailor, safe returned
      From Calpé and the cliffs of Herakles!
   No! thou art Helen, and none other one!
      It was for thee that young Sarpedôn died,
         And Memnôn’s manhood was untimely spent;
      It was for thee gold-crested Hector tried
   With Thetis’ child that evil race to run,
         In the last year of thy beleaguerment;
   Ay! even now the glory of thy fame
      Burns in those fields of trampled asphodel,
      Where the high lords whom Ilion knew so well
   Clash ghostly shields, and call upon thy name.
   Where hast thou been? in that enchanted land
      Whose slumbering vales forlorn Calypso knew,
         Where never mower rose at break of day
      But all unswathed the trammelling grasses grew,
   And the sad shepherd saw the tall corn stand
         Till summer’s red had changed to withered grey?
   Didst thou lie there by some Lethaan stream
      Deep brooding on thine ancient memory,
      The crash of broken spears, the fiery gleam
   From shivered helm, the Grecian battle-cry?
   Nay, thou wert hidden in that hollow hill
      With one who is forgotten utterly,
         That discrowned Queen men call the Erycine;
      Hidden away that never mightst thou see
   The face of Her, before whose mouldering shrine
         To-day at Rome the silent nations kneel;
   Who gat from Love no joyous gladdening,
      But only Love’s intolerable pain,
      Only a sword to pierce her heart in twain,
   Only the bitterness of child-bearing.
   The lotus-leaves which heal the wounds of Death
      Lie in thy hand; O, be thou kind to me,
         While yet I know the summer of my days;
      For hardly can my tremulous lips draw breath
   To fill the silver trumpet with thy praise,
         So bowed am I before thy mystery;
   So bowed and broken on Love’s terrible wheel,
      That I have lost all hope and heart to sing,
      Yet care I not what ruin time may bring
   If in thy temple thou wilt let me kneel.
   Alas, alas, thou wilt not tarry here,
      But, like that bird, the servant of the sun,
         Who flies before the north wind and the night,
      So wilt thou fly our evil land and drear,
   Back to the tower of thine old delight,
         And the red lips of young Euphorion;
   Nor shall I ever see thy face again,
      But in this poisonous garden-close must stay,
      Crowning my brows with the thorn-crown of pain,
   Till all my loveless life shall pass away.
