  Pitying his obvious distress,
  Yet with a tinge of bitterness,
  She said "The More exceeds the Less."
  "A truth of such undoubted weight,"
  He urged, "and so extreme in date,
  It were superfluous to state."
  Roused into sudden passion, she
  In tone of cold malignity:
  "To others, yea: but not to thee."
  But when she saw him quail and quake,
  And when he urged "For pity's sake!"
  Once more in gentle tone she spake.
  "Thought in the mind doth still abide:
  That is by Intellect supplied,
  And within that Idea doth hide:
  "And he, that yearns the truth to know,
  Still further inwardly may go,
  And find Idea from Notion flow:
  "And thus the chain, that sages sought,
  Is to a glorious circle wrought,
  For Notion hath its source in Thought."
  So passed they on with even pace:
  Yet gradually one might trace
  A shadow growing on his face.
[Illustration]
The Second Voice.
[Illustration]
  They walked beside the wave-worn beach;
  Her tongue was very apt to teach,
  And now and then he did beseech
  She would abate her dulcet tone,
  Because the talk was all her own,
  And he was dull as any drone.
  She urged "No cheese is made of chalk":
  And ceaseless flowed her dreary talk,
  Tuned to the footfall of a walk.
  Her voice was very full and rich,
  And, when at length she asked him "Which?"
  It mounted to its highest pitch.
  He a bewildered answer gave,
  Drowned in the sullen moaning wave,
  Lost in the echoes of the cave.
  He answered her he knew not what:
  Like shaft from bow at random shot,
  He spoke, but she regarded not.
  She waited not for his reply,
  But with a downward leaden eye
  Went on as if he were not by:
  Sound argument and grave defence,
  Strange questions raised on "Why?" and "Whence?"
  And wildly tangled evidence.
  When he, with racked and whirling brain,
  Feebly implored her to explain,
  She simply said it all again.
  Wrenched with an agony intense,
  He spake, neglecting Sound and Sense,
  And careless of all consequence:
  "Mind--I believe--is Essence--Ent--
  Abstract--that is--an Accident--
  Which we--that is to say--I meant--"
  When, with quick breath and cheeks all flushed,
  At length his speech was somewhat hushed,
  She looked at him, and he was crushed.
  It needed not her calm reply:
  She fixed him with a stony eye,
  And he could neither fight nor fly,
  While she dissected, word by word,
  His speech, half guessed at and half heard,
  As might a cat a little bird.
[Illustration: "HE SPAKE, NEGLECTING SOUND AND SENSE."]
  Then, having wholly overthrown
  His views, and stripped them to the bone,
  Proceeded to unfold her own.
  "Shall Man be Man? And shall he miss
  Of other thoughts no thought but this,
  Harmonious dews of sober bliss?
  "What boots it? Shall his fevered eye
  Through towering nothingness descry
  The grisly phantom hurry by?
  "And hear dumb shrieks that fill the air;
  See mouths that gape, and eyes that stare
  And redden in the dusky glare?
