There was something irresistibly propitiating in that bright young
smile, but Monna Ghita was not a woman to betray any weakness, and she
went on speaking, apparently with heightened exasperation.
"Yes, yes, you can grin as well as other monkeys in cap and jerkin.
You're a minstrel or a mountebank, I'll be sworn; you look for all the
world as silly as a tumbler when he's been upside down and has got on
his heels again.  And what fool's tricks hast thou been after, Tessa?"
she added, turning to her daughter, whose frightened face was more
inviting to abuse.  "Giving away the milk and victuals, it seems; ay,
ay, thou'dst carry water in thy ears for any idle vagabond that didn't
like to stoop for it, thou silly staring rabbit!  Turn thy back, and
lift the herbs out of the panniers, else I'll make thee say a few Aves
without counting."
"Nay, Madonna," said the stranger, with a pleading smile, "don't be
angry with your pretty Tessa for taking pity on a hungry traveller, who
found himself unexpectedly without a quattrino.  Your handsome face
looks so well when it frowns, that I long to see it illuminated by a
smile."
"_Va via_!  I know what paste you are made of.  You may tickle me with
that straw a good long while before I shall laugh, I can tell you.  Get
along, with a bad Easter! else I'll make a beauty-spot or two on that
face of yours that shall spoil your kissing on this side Advent."
As Monna Ghita lifted her formidable talons by way of complying with the
first and last requisite of eloquence, Bratti, who had come up a minute
or two before, had been saying to his companion, "What think you of this
pretty parrot, Nello?  Doesn't his tongue smack of Venice?"
"Nay, Bratti," said the barber in an undertone, "thy wisdom has much of
the ass in it, as I told thee just now; especially about the ears.  This
stranger is a Greek, else I'm not the barber who has had the sole and
exclusive shaving of the excellent Demetrio, and drawn more than one
sorry tooth from his learned jaw.  And this youth might be taken to have
come straight from Olympus--at least when he has had a touch of my
razor."
"_Orsu_!  Monna Ghita!" continued Nello, not sorry to see some sport;
"what has happened to cause such a thunderstorm?  Has this young
stranger been misbehaving himself?"
"By San Giovanni!" said the cautious Bratti, who had not shaken off his
original suspicions concerning the shabbily-clad possessor of jewels,
"he did right to run away from _me_, if he meant to get into mischief.
I can swear that I found him under the Loggia de' Cerchi, with a ring on
his finger such as I've seen worn by Bernardo Rucellai himself.  Not
another rusty nail's worth do I know about him."
"The fact is," said Nello, eyeing the stranger good-humouredly, "this
_bello giovane_ has been a little too presumptuous in admiring the
charms of Monna Ghita, and has attempted to kiss her while her
daughter's back is turned; for I observe that the pretty Tessa is too
busy to look this way at present.  Was it not so, Messer?"  Nello
concluded, in a tone of courtesy.
