"He's a perfect dear!" cried Annabel, revelling in the crystal,
filigree, coral, and mosaic trinkets spread before her; while Rose
completed her rapture by adding sundry tasteful trifles fresh from
Paris.
"Now tell me, when do you mean to have your coming-out party? I ask
because I've nothing ready, and want plenty of time; for, I suppose,
it will be _the_ event of the season," asked Annabel, a few minutes
later, as she wavered between a pink coral and a blue lava set.
"I came out when I went to Europe; but I suppose Aunty Plen will want
to have some sort of merrymaking to celebrate our return. I shall
begin as I mean to go on, and have a simple, sociable sort of party,
and invite every one whom I like, no matter in what 'set' they happen
to belong. No one shall ever say _I_ am aristocratic and exclusive: so
prepare yourself to be shocked; for old friends and young, rich and
poor, will be asked to all my parties."
"Oh, my heart! you _are_ going to be odd just as mamma predicted!"
sighed Annabel, clasping her hands in despair, and studying the effect
of three bracelets on her chubby arm in the midst of her woe.
"In my own house I'm going to do as I think best; and, if people call
me odd, I can't help it. I shall endeavor not to do any thing very
dreadful; but I seem to inherit uncle's love for experiments, and mean
to try some. I dare say they will fail and I shall get laughed at; I
intend to do it nevertheless, so you had better drop me now before I
begin," said Rose, with an air of resolution that was rather alarming.
"What shall you wear at this new sort of party of yours?" asked
Annabel, wisely turning a deaf ear to all delicate or dangerous topics
and keeping to matters she understood.
"That white thing over there. It is fresh and pretty, and Phebe has
one like it. I never want to dress more than she does; and gowns of
that sort are always most appropriate and becoming to girls of our
age."
"Phebe! you don't mean to say you are going to make a lady of _her_!"
gasped Annabel, upsetting her treasures, as she fell back with a
gesture that made the little chair creak again; for Miss Bliss was as
plump as a partridge.
"She _is_ one already, and anybody who slights her slights me; for she
is the best girl I know and the dearest," cried Rose, warmly.
"Yes, of course,--I was only surprised,--you are quite right; for she
_may_ turn out to be somebody, and then how glad you'll feel that you
were so good to her!" said Annabel, veering round at once, seeing
which way the wind blew.
Before Rose could speak again, a cheery voice called from the hall,--
"Little mistress, where are you?"
"In my room, Phebe, dear," and up came the girl Rose was going to
"make a lady of," looking so like one that Annabel opened her
china-blue eyes, and smiled involuntarily as Phebe dropped a little
courtesy in playful imitation of her old manner, and said quietly,--
