"The voice of the sluggard would be a more appropriate quotation, I
think. Does Annabel still pine for you?" asked Rose, recalling certain
youthful jokes upon the subject of unrequited affections.
"Not a bit of it. Fun has cut me out, and the fair Annabella will be
Mrs. Tokio before the winter is over, if I'm not much mistaken."
"What, little Fun See? How droll it seems to think of him grown up and
married to Annabel of all people! She never said a word about him; but
this accounts for her admiring my pretty Chinese things, and being so
interested in Canton."
"Little Fun is a great swell now, and much enamoured of our fat
friend, who will take to chopsticks whenever he says the word. I
needn't ask how you do, cousin; for you beat that Aurora all hollow in
the way of color. I should have been up before, but I thought you'd
like a good rest after your voyage."
"I was running a race with Jamie before nine o'clock. What were you
doing, young man?"
    "'Sleeping I dreamed, love, dreamed, love, of thee,'"
began Charlie; but Rose cut him short by saying as reproachfully as
she could, while the culprit stood regarding her with placid
satisfaction,--
"You ought to have been up and at work like the rest of the boys. I
felt like a drone in a hive of very busy bees, when I saw them all
hurrying off to their business."
"But, my dear girl, I've got no business. I'm making up my mind, you
see, and do the ornamental while I'm deciding. There always ought to
be one gentleman in a family, and that seems to be rather my line,"
answered Charlie, posing for the character, with an assumption of
languid elegance which would have been very effective if his twinkling
eyes had not spoilt it.
"There are none _but_ gentlemen in our family, I hope," answered Rose,
with the proud air she always wore when any thing was said derogatory
to the name of Campbell.
"Of course, of course. I should have said gentleman of leisure. You
see it is against my principles to slave as Archie does. What's the
use? Don't need the money, got plenty; so why not enjoy it, and keep
jolly as long as possible? I'm sure cheerful people are public
benefactors in this world of woe."
It was not easy to object to this proposition, especially when made by
a comely young man, who looked the picture of health and happiness as
he sat on the arm of the sofa, smiling at his cousin in the most
engaging manner. Rose knew very well that the Epicurean philosophy was
not the true one to begin life upon; but it was difficult to reason
with Charlie, because he always dodged sober subjects, and was so full
of cheery spirits, one hated to lessen the sort of sunshine which
certainly is a public benefactor.
"You have such a clever way of putting things that I don't know how to
contradict you, though I still think I'm right," she said gravely.
"Mac likes to idle as well as you; but he is not going to do it,
because he knows it's bad for him to fritter away his time. He is
going to study a profession like a wise boy; though he would much
prefer to live among his beloved books, or ride his hobbies in peace."
