Archie and Mac looked well pleased, and promised their advice and
assistance with the enthusiasm of generous young hearts. Steve shook
his head, but said nothing; and the lads on the rug at once proposed
founding a hospital for invalid dogs and horses, white mice and
wounded heroes.
"Don't you think that will be a better way for a woman to spend her
life, than in dancing, dressing, and husband-hunting, Charlie?" asked
Rose, observing his silence and anxious for his approval.
"Very pretty for a little while, and very effective too; for I don't
know any thing more captivating than a sweet girl in a meek little
bonnet, going on charitable errands and glorifying poor people's
houses with a delightful mixture of beauty and benevolence.
Fortunately, the dear souls soon tire of it, but it's heavenly while
it lasts."
Charlie spoke in a tone of mingled admiration and contempt, and smiled
a superior sort of smile, as if he understood all the innocent
delusions as well as the artful devices of the sex, and expected
nothing more from them. It both surprised and grieved Rose, for it did
not sound like the Charlie she had left two years ago. But she only
said, with a reproachful look and a proud little gesture of head and
hand, as if she put the subject aside since it was not treated with
respect,--
"I am sorry you have so low an opinion of women: there _was_ a time
when you believed in them sincerely."
"I do still, upon my word I do! They haven't a more devoted admirer
and slave in the world than I am. Just try me and see," cried Charlie,
gallantly kissing his hand to the sex in general.
But Rose was not appeased, and gave a disdainful shrug, as she
answered with a look in her eyes that his lordship did not like,--
"Thank you: I don't want admirers or slaves, but friends and helpers.
I've lived so long with a wise, good man that I am rather hard to
suit, perhaps; but I don't intend to lower my standard, and any one
who cares for my regard must at least try to live up to it."
"Whew! here's a wrathful dove! Come and smooth her ruffled plumage,
Mac. I'll dodge before I do further mischief," and Charlie strolled
away into the other room, privately lamenting that Uncle Alec had
spoiled a fine girl by making her strong-minded.
He wished himself back again in five minutes; for Mac said something
that produced a gale of laughter, and when he took a look over his
shoulder the "wrathful dove" was cooing so peacefully and pleasantly
he was sorely tempted to return and share the fun. But Charlie had
been spoiled by too much indulgence, and it was hard for him to own
himself in the wrong even when he knew it. He always got what he
wanted sooner or later; and, having long ago made up his mind that
Rose and her fortune were to be his, he was secretly displeased at the
new plans and beliefs of the young lady, but flattered himself that
they would soon be changed when she saw how unfashionable and
inconvenient they were.
