Musing over the delightful future he had laid out, he made himself
comfortable in the sofa corner near his mother, till the appearance of
a slight refection caused both groups to melt into one. Aunt Plenty
believed in eating and drinking; so the slightest excuse for festivity
delighted her hospitable soul, and on this joyful occasion she
surpassed herself.
It was during this informal banquet that Rose, roaming about from one
admiring relative to another, came upon the three younger lads, who
were having a quiet little scuffle in a secluded corner.
"Come out here and let me have a look at you," she said enticingly;
for she predicted an explosion and public disgrace if peace was not
speedily restored.
Hastily smoothing themselves down, the young gentlemen presented three
flushed and merry countenances for inspection, feeling highly honored
by the command.
"Dear me, how you two have grown! You big things! how dare you get
ahead of me in this way?" she said, standing on tiptoe to pat the
curly pates before her; for Will and Geordie had shot up like weeds,
and now grinned cheerfully down upon her as she surveyed them in comic
amazement.
"The Campbells are all fine, tall fellows; and we mean to be the best
of the lot. Shouldn't wonder if we were six-footers, like Grandpa,"
observed Will proudly, looking so like a young Shanghae rooster, all
legs and an insignificant head, that Rose kept her countenance with
difficulty.
"We shall broaden out when we get our growth. We are taller than Steve
now, a half a head, both of us," added Geordie, with his nose in the
air.
Rose turned to look at Steve, and, with a sudden smile, beckoned to
him. He dropped his napkin, and flew to obey the summons; for she was
queen of the hour, and he had openly announced his deathless loyalty.
"Tell the other boys to come here. I've a fancy to stand you all in a
row and look you over, as you did me that dreadful day when you nearly
frightened me out of my wits," she said, laughing at the memory of it
as she spoke.
They came in a body, and, standing shoulder to shoulder, made such an
imposing array that the young commander was rather daunted for a
moment. But she had seen too much of the world lately to be abashed by
a trifle; and the desire to try a girlish test gave her courage to
face the line of smiling cousins with dignity and spirit.
"Now I'm going to stare at you as you stared at me. It is my revenge
on you seven bad boys for entrapping one poor little girl, and
enjoying her alarm. I'm not a bit afraid of you now; so tremble and
beware!"
As she spoke, Rose looked up into Archie's face and nodded
approvingly; for the steady gray eyes met hers fairly, and softened as
they did so,--a becoming change, for naturally they were rather keen
than kind.
