Rose obeyed, and neither spoke for a moment, as the old woman held the
young one close, and appeased the two years' longing of a motherly
heart by the caresses women give the creatures dearest to them. Right
in the middle of a kiss, however, she stopped suddenly; and, holding
out one arm, caught Phebe, who was trying to steal away unobserved.
"Don't go: there's room for both in my love, though there isn't in my
lap. I'm so grateful to get my dear girls safely home again, that I
hardly know what I'm about," said Aunt Plenty, embracing Phebe so
heartily that she could not feel left out in the cold, and stood there
with her black eyes shining through the happiest tears.
"There, now I've had a good hug, and feel as if I was all right again.
I wish you'd set that cap in order, Rose: I went to bed in such a
hurry I pulled the strings off and left it all in a heap. Phebe, dear,
you shall dust round a mite, just as you used to; for I haven't had
any one to do it as I like since you've been gone, and it will do me
good to see all my knickknacks straightened out in your tidy way,"
said the elder lady, getting up with a refreshed expression on her
rosy old face.
"Shall I dust in here too?" asked Phebe, glancing toward an inner room
which used to be her care.
"No, dear, I'd rather do that myself. Go in if you like: nothing is
changed. I _must_ go and see to my pudding;" and Aunt Plenty trotted
abruptly away, with a quiver of emotion in her voice which made even
her last words pathetic.
Pausing on the threshold as if it was a sacred place, the girls looked
in with eyes soon dimmed by tender tears; for it seemed as if the
gentle occupant was still there. Sunshine shone on the old geraniums
by the window; the cushioned chair stood in its accustomed place, with
the white wrapper hung across it, and the faded slippers lying ready.
Books and basket, knitting and spectacles, were all just as she had
left them; and the beautiful tranquillity that always filled the room
seemed so natural both lookers turned involuntarily toward the bed
where Aunt Peace used to greet them with a smile. There was no sweet
old face upon the pillow now, yet the tears that wet the blooming
cheeks were not for her who had gone, but for her who was left;
because they saw something which spoke eloquently of the love which
outlives death and makes the humblest thing beautiful and sacred.
A well-worn footstool stood beside the bed, and in the high-piled
whiteness of the empty couch there was a little hollow where a gray
head nightly rested, while Aunt Plenty said the prayers her mother
taught her seventy years ago.
Without a word, the girls softly shut the door: and, while Phebe put
the room in the most exquisite order, Rose retrimmed the plain white
cap, where pink and yellow ribbons never rustled now; both feeling
honored by their tasks, and better for their knowledge of the faithful
love and piety which sanctified a good old woman's life.
