Rebecca. Yes, Mortensgaard has a great deal of influence over the
people about here.
Kroll. Yes, just think of it--a man with as dirty a record as his! A
fellow that was turned out of his place as a schoolmaster because of
his immoral conduct! This is the sort of man that poses as a leader of
the people! And successfully, too!--actually successfully! I hear that
he means to enlarge his paper now. I know, on reliable authority, that
he is looking for a competent assistant.
Rebecca. It seems to me surprising that you and your friends do not
start an opposition paper.
Kroll. That is exactly what we intend to do. This very day we have
bought the "County News." There was no difficulty about the financial
side of the matter; but-- (Turns towards ROSMER) Now we have come to
the real purport of my visit. It is the Management of it--the editorial
management--that is the difficulty, you see. Look here, Rosmer--don't
you feel called upon to undertake it, for the sake of the good cause?
Rosmer (in a tone of consternation). I!
Rebecca. How can you think of such a thing!
Kroll. I can quite understand your having a horror of public meetings
and being unwilling to expose yourself to the mercies of the rabble
that frequents them. But an editor's work, which is carried on in much
greater privacy, or rather--
Rosmer. No, no, my dear fellow, you must not ask that of me.
Kroll. It would give me the greatest pleasure to have a try at work of
that sort myself--only it would be quite out of the question for me; I
am already saddled with such an endless number of duties. You, on the
other hand, who are no longer hampered by any official duties, might--.
Of course the rest of us would give you all the help in our power.
Rosmer. I cannot do it, Kroll. I am not fitted for it.
Kroll. Not fitted for it? That was just what you said when your father
got you your living.
Rosmer. I was quite right; and that was why I resigned it, too.
Kroll. Well, if you only make as good an editor as you did a parson, we
shall be quite satisfied.
Rosmer. My dear Kroll--once for all--I cannot do it.
Kroll. Well, then, I suppose you will give us the use of your name, at
all events?
Rosmer. My name?
Kroll. Yes, the mere fact of John Rosmer's name being connected with it
will be a great advantage to the paper. We others are looked upon as
pronounced partisans. I myself even have the reputation of being a
wicked fanatic, I am told. Therefore we cannot count upon our own names
to give us any particular help in making the paper known to the
misguided masses. But you, on the contrary, have always held aloof from
this kind of fighting. Your gentle and upright disposition, your
polished mind, your unimpeachable honour, are known to and appreciated
by every one about here. And then there is the deference and respect
that your former position as a clergyman ensures for you--and, besides
that, there is the veneration in which your family, name is held!
