WITHOUT FRONTIERS
Goethe--you will not misunderstand what I say--was a German of the
Germans.  He loved his country--no man more so.  Its people were dear to
him; and he led them.  Yet, when the iron hoof of Napoleon trampled upon
vineyard and cornfield, his lips were silent.  'How can one write songs
of hatred without hating?' he said to Eckermann, 'and how could I, to
whom culture and barbarism are alone of importance, hate a nation which
is among the most cultivated of the earth and to which I owe so great a
part of my own cultivation?'  This note, sounded in the modern world by
Goethe first, will become, I think, the starting point for the
cosmopolitanism of the future.  Criticism will annihilate
race-prejudices, by insisting upon the unity of the human mind in the
variety of its forms.  If we are tempted to make war upon another nation,
we shall remember that we are seeking to destroy an element of our own
culture, and possibly its most important element.  As long as war is
regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascination.  When it is
looked upon as vulgar, it will cease to be popular.  The change will of
course be slow, and people will not be conscious of it.  They will not
say 'We will not war against France because her prose is perfect,' but
because the prose of France is perfect, they will not hate the land.
Intellectual criticism will bind Europe together in bonds far closer than
those that can be forged by shopman or sentimentalist.  It will give us
the peace that springs from understanding.--_The Critic as Artist_.
THE POETRY OF ARCHAEOLOGY
Infessura tells us that in 1485 some workmen digging on the Appian Way
came across an old Roman sarcophagus inscribed with the name 'Julia,
daughter of Claudius.'  On opening the coffer they found within its
marble womb the body of a beautiful girl of about fifteen years of age,
preserved by the embalmer's skill from corruption and the decay of time.
Her eyes were half open, her hair rippled round her in crisp curling
gold, and from her lips and cheek the bloom of maidenhood had not yet
departed.  Borne back to the Capitol, she became at once the centre of a
new cult, and from all parts of the city crowded pilgrims to worship at
the wonderful shrine, till the Pope, fearing lest those who had found the
secret of beauty in a Pagan tomb might forget what secrets Judaea's rough
and rock-hewn sepulchre contained, had the body conveyed away by night,
and in secret buried.  Legend though it may be, yet the story is none the
less valuable as showing us the attitude of the Renaissance towards the
antique world.  Archaeology to them was not a mere science for the
antiquarian; it was a means by which they could touch the dry dust of
antiquity into the very breath and beauty of life, and fill with the new
wine of romanticism forms that else had been old and outworn.  From the
pulpit of Niccola Pisano down to Mantegna's 'Triumph of Caesar,' and the
service Cellini designed for King Francis, the influence of this spirit
can be traced; nor was it confined merely to the immobile arts--the arts
of arrested movement--but its influence was to be seen also in the great
Graeco-Roman masques which were the constant amusement of the gay courts
of the time, and in the public pomps and processions with which the
citizens of big commercial towns were wont to greet the princes that
chanced to visit them; pageants, by the way, which were considered so
important that large prints were made of them and published--a fact which
is a proof of the general interest at the time in matters of such
kind.--_The Truth of Masks_.
