   Alon. I pre-thee spare
   Gon. Well, I haue done: But yet
   Seb. He will be talking
   Ant. Which, of he, or Adrian, for a good wager,
First begins to crow?
 Seb. The old Cocke
   Ant. The Cockrell
   Seb. Done: The wager?
   Ant. A Laughter
   Seb. A match
   Adr. Though this Island seeme to be desert
   Seb. Ha, ha, ha
   Ant. So: you'r paid
   Adr. Vninhabitable, and almost inaccessible
   Seb. Yet
  Adr. Yet
  Ant. He could not misse't
   Adr. It must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate
temperance
   Ant. Temperance was a delicate wench
   Seb. I, and a subtle, as he most learnedly deliuer'd
   Adr. The ayre breathes vpon vs here most sweetly
   Seb. As if it had Lungs, and rotten ones
   Ant. Or, as 'twere perfum'd by a Fen
   Gon. Heere is euery thing aduantageous to life
   Ant. True, saue meanes to liue
   Seb. Of that there's none, or little
   Gon. How lush and lusty the grasse lookes?
How greene?
  Ant. The ground indeed is tawny
   Seb. With an eye of greene in't
   Ant. He misses not much
   Seb. No: he doth but mistake the truth totally
   Gon. But the rariety of it is, which is indeed almost
beyond credit
   Seb. As many voucht rarieties are
   Gon. That our Garments being (as they were) drencht
in the Sea, hold notwithstanding their freshnesse and
glosses, being rather new dy'de then stain'd with salte
water
   Ant. If but one of his pockets could speake, would
it not say he lyes?
  Seb. I, or very falsely pocket vp his report
   Gon. Me thinkes our garments are now as fresh as
when we put them on first in Affricke, at the marriage
of the kings faire daughter Claribel to the king of Tunis
   Seb. 'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in
our returne
   Adri. Tunis was neuer grac'd before with such a Paragon
to their Queene
   Gon. Not since widdow Dido's time
   Ant. Widow? A pox o'that: how came that Widdow
in? Widdow Dido!
  Seb. What if he had said Widdower aeneas too?
Good Lord, how you take it?
  Adri. Widdow Dido said you? You make me study
of that: She was of Carthage, not of Tunis
   Gon. This Tunis Sir was Carthage
   Adri. Carthage?
   Gon. I assure you Carthage
   Ant. His word is more then the miraculous Harpe
   Seb. He hath rais'd the wall, and houses too
   Ant. What impossible matter wil he make easy next?
  Seb. I thinke hee will carry this Island home in his
pocket, and giue it his sonne for an Apple
   Ant. And sowing the kernels of it in the Sea, bring
forth more Islands
   Gon. I
   Ant. Why in good time
   Gon. Sir, we were talking, that our garments seeme
now as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
of your daughter, who is now Queene
   Ant. And the rarest that ere came there
   Seb. Bate (I beseech you) widdow Dido
   Ant. O Widdow Dido? I, Widdow Dido
   Gon. Is not Sir my doublet as fresh as the first day I
wore it? I meane in a sort
