    MIR.                   I might call him
    A thing divine, for nothing natural
    I ever saw so noble.
[Illustration:
    CALIBAN: '_Wouldst give me
      Water with berries in't_' (page 31).]
    PROS. [_aside._]  It goes on, I see,
    As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee
    Within two days for this.
    FER.                   Most sure, the goddess
    On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my prayer
    May know if you remain upon this island;
    And that you will some good instruction give
    How I may bear me here: my prime request,
    Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder!
    If you be maid or no?
    MIR.                   No wonder, sir;
    But certainly a maid.
    FER.                   My language! heavens!
    I am the best of them that speak this speech,
    Were I but where 'tis spoken.
    PROS.                  How? the best?
    What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee?
    FER. A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
    To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;
    And that he does I weep: myself am Naples,
    Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
    The king my father wreck'd.
    MIR.                   Alack, for mercy!
    FER. Yes, faith, and all his lords; the Duke of Milan
    And his brave son being twain.
    PROS. [_aside._]  The Duke of Milan
    And his more braver daughter could control thee,
    If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight
    They have changed eyes. Delicate Ariel,
    I'll set thee free for this. [_To_ FER.] A word, good sir;
    I fear you have done yourself some wrong: a word.
    MIR. Why speaks my father so ungently? This
    Is the third man that e'er I saw; the first
    That e'er I sighed for: pity move my father
    To be inclined my way!
    FER.                   O, if a virgin,
    And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you
    The queen of Naples.
    PROS.                  Soft, sir! one word more.
    [_Aside._] They are both in either's powers; but
      this swift business
    I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
    Make the prize light. [_To_ FER.] One word more;
      I charge thee
    That thou attend me: thou dost here usurp
    The name thou owest not; and hast put thyself
    Upon this island as a spy, to win it
    From me, the lord on't.
    FER.                   No, as I am a man.
    MIR. There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
    If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
    Good things will strive to dwell with't.
    PROS.                  Follow me.
    Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
    I'll manacle thy neck and feet together:
    Sea-water shalt thou drink; thy food shall be
    The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks
    Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.
    FER.                   No;
    I will resist such entertainment till
    Mine enemy has more power.
                                  [_Draws, and is charmed from moving._
    MIR.                   O dear father,
    Make not too rash a trial of him, for
    He's gentle and not fearful.
    PROS. What? I say,
    My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor;
    Who makest a show but darest not strike, thy conscience
    Is so possess'd with guilt: come from thy ward,
    For I can here disarm thee with this stick
    And make thy weapon drop.
