    PROS. If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
    And peg thee in his knotty entrails till
    Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
    ARI.                   Pardon, master;
    I will be correspondent to command,
    And do my spriting gently.
    PROS.                  Do so, and after two days
    I will discharge thee.
    ARI.                   That's my noble master!
    What shall I do? say what; what shall I do?
    PROS. Go make thyself like a nymph o' the sea: be subject
    To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
    To every eyeball else. Go take this shape
    And hither come in 't: go, hence with diligence!
                                                         [_Exit_ ARIEL.
    Awake, dear heart, awake! thou hast slept well;
    Awake!
    MIR. The strangeness of your story put
    Heaviness in me.
    PROS.                  Shake it off. Come on;
    We'll visit Caliban my slave, who never
    Yields us kind answer.
    MIR.                   'Tis a villain, sir,
    I do not love to look on.
    PROS.                  But, as 'tis,
    We cannot miss him: he does make our fire,
    Fetch in our wood and serves in offices
    That profit us. What, ho! slave! Caliban
    Thou earth, thou! speak.
    CAL. [_within._] There's wood enough within.
    PROS. Come forth, I say! there's other business for thee:
    Come, thou tortoise! when?
    _Re-enter_ ARIEL _like a water-nymph_.
    Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
    Hark in thine ear.
    ARI.                   My lord, it shall be done. [_Exit._
    PROS. Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
    Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
    _Enter_ CALIBAN.
    CAL. As wicked dew as e'er my mother brushed
    With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
    Drop on you both! a south-west blow on ye
    And blister you all o'er!
    PROS. For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps,
    Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins
    Shall, for that vast of night that they may work,
    All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
    As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging
    Than bees that made 'em.
    CAL.                   I must eat my dinner.
    This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
    Which thou takest from me. When thou camest first,
    Thou strokedst me and madest much of me, wouldst give me
    Water with berries in't, and teach me how
    To name the bigger light, and how the less,
    That burn by day and night: and then I loved thee
    And show'd thee all the qualities o' the isle,
    The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile:
    Cursed be I that did so! All the charms
    Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
    For I am all the subjects that you have,
    Which first was mine own king: and here you sty me
    In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me
    The rest o' the island.
    PROS.                  Thou most lying slave,
    Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have used thee,
    Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee
    In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate
    The honour of my child.
    CAL. O ho, O ho! would't had been done!
    Thou didst prevent me; I had peopled else
    This isle with Calibans.
