While Amanda made inquiries at an office, and Matilda had raptures over
the massive archway crowned with yellow flowers, Lavinia was edified by
a new example of woman's right to labour.
Close by was a clean, rosy old woman, whose unusual occupation attracted
our spinster's attention. Whisking off the wheels of a _diligence_, the
old lady greased them one by one, and put them on again with the skill
and speed of a regular blacksmith, and then began to pile many parcels
into a _char_ apparently waiting for them.
She was a brisk, cheery old soul, with the colour of a winter-apple in
her face, plenty of fire in her quick black eyes, and a mouthful of fine
teeth, though she must have been sixty. She was dressed in the costume
of the place: a linen cap with several sharp gables to it, a gay
kerchief over her shoulders, a blue woollen gown short enough to display
a pair of sturdy feet and legs in neat shoes with bunches of ribbons on
the instep and black hose. A gray apron, with pockets and a bib,
finished her off; making a very sensible as well as picturesque costume.
She was still hard at it when a big boy appeared, and began to heave the
trunks into another _char_; but gave out at the second, which was
large. Instantly the brisk old woman put him aside, hoisted in the big
boxes without help, and, catching up the shafts of the heavily laden
cart, trotted away with it at a pace which caused the Americans (who
prided themselves on their muscle) to stare after her in blank
amazement.
When next seen she was toiling up a steep street, still ahead of the
lazy boy, who slowly followed with the lighter load. It did not suit
Lavinia's ideas of the fitness of things to have an old woman trundle
three heavy trunks while she herself carried nothing but a parasol, and
she would certainly have lent a hand if the vigorous creature had not
gone at such a pace that it was impossible to overtake her till she
backed her cart up before a door in most scientific style, and with a
bow, a smile, and a courteous wave of the hand, informed them that
'here the ladies would behold the excellent Madame C.'
They did behold and also receive a most cordial welcome from the good
lady, who not only embraced them with effusion, but turned her house
upside down for their accommodation, merely because they came
recommended to her hospitality by a former lodger who had won her kind
old heart.
While she purred over them, the luggage was being bumped upstairs, the
old woman shouldering trunk after trunk, and trudging up two steep
flights in the most marvellous way. But best of all was her surprise and
gratitude on receiving a larger fee than usual, for the ladies were much
interested in this dear old Hercules in a cap of seven gables.
