TATYANA.
The second letter was as follows:
IVAN PETROVITCH,
To-morrow you will receive a new pair of galoshes. It is not my habit to
filch from other men's pockets, and I am not fond of picking up all sorts
of rubbish in the streets.
Yevgeny Nikolaitch is going to Simbirsk in a day or two on his
grandfather's business, and he has asked me to find a travelling companion
for him; wouldn't you like to take him with you?
AN UNPLEASANT PREDICAMENT
This unpleasant business occurred at the epoch when the regeneration of our
beloved fatherland and the struggle of her valiant sons towards new hopes
and destinies was beginning with irresistible force and with a touchingly
naive impetuosity. One winter evening in that period, between eleven and
twelve o'clock, three highly respectable gentlemen were sitting in a
comfortable and even luxuriously furnished room in a handsome house of two
storeys on the Petersburg Side, and were engaged in a staid and edifying
conversation on a very interesting subject. These three gentlemen were all
of generals' rank. They were sitting round a little table, each in a soft
and handsome arm-chair, and as they talked, they quietly and luxuriously
sipped champagne. The bottle stood on the table on a silver stand with ice
round it. The fact was that the host, a privy councillor called Stepan
Nikiforovitch Nikiforov, an old bachelor of sixty-five, was celebrating his
removal into a house he had just bought, and as it happened, also his
birthday, which he had never kept before. The festivity, however, was not
on a very grand scale; as we have seen already, there were only two guests,
both of them former colleagues and former subordinates of Mr. Nikiforov;
that is, an actual civil councillor called Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko,
and another actual civil councillor, Ivan Ilyitch Pralinsky. They had
arrived to tea at nine o'clock, then had begun upon the wine, and knew that
at exactly half-past eleven they would have to set off home. Their host had
all his life been fond of regularity. A few words about him.
He had begun his career as a petty clerk with nothing to back him, had
quietly plodded on for forty-five years, knew very well what to work
towards, had no ambition to draw the stars down from heaven, though he had
two stars already, and particularly disliked expressing his own opinion on
any subject. He was honest, too, that is, it had not happened to him to do
anything particularly dishonest; he was a bachelor because he was an
egoist; he had plenty of brains, but he could not bear showing his
intelligence; he particularly disliked slovenliness and enthusiasm,
regarding it as moral slovenliness; and towards the end of his life had
become completely absorbed in a voluptuous, indolent comfort and systematic
solitude. Though he sometimes visited people of a rather higher rank than
his own, yet from his youth up he could never endure entertaining visitors
himself; and of late he had, if he did not play a game of patience, been
satisfied with the society of his dining-room clock, and would spend the
whole evening dozing in his arm-chair, listening placidly to its ticking
under its glass case on the chimney-piece. In appearance he was closely
shaven and extremely proper-looking, he was well-preserved, looking younger
than his age; he promised to go on living many years longer, and closely
followed the rules of the highest good breeding. His post was a fairly
comfortable one: he had to preside somewhere and to sign something. In
short, he was regarded as a first-rate man. He had only one passion, or
more accurately, one keen desire: that was, to have his own house, and a
house built like a gentleman's residence, not a commercial investment. His
desire was at last realised: he looked out and bought a house on the
Petersburg Side, a good way off, it is true, but it had a garden and was an
elegant house. The new owner decided that it was better for being a good
way off: he did not like entertaining at home, and for driving to see any
one or to the office he had a handsome carriage of a chocolate hue, a
coachman, Mihey, and two little but strong and handsome horses. All this
was honourably acquired by the careful frugality of forty years, so that
his heart rejoiced over it.
