"I suppose you are thinking of new wine in old bottles?" Ivan Ilyitch
replied, not without irony. "Well, I can answer for myself, anyway."
At that moment the clock struck half-past eleven.
"One sits on and on, but one must go at last," said Semyon Ivanovitch,
getting up. But Ivan Ilyitch was before him; he got up from the table and
took his sable cap from the chimney-piece. He looked as though he had been
insulted.
"So how is it to be, Semyon Ivanovitch? Will you think it over?" said
Stepan Nikiforovitch, as he saw the visitors out.
"About the flat, you mean? I'll think it over, I'll think it over."
"Well, when you have made up your mind, let me know as soon as possible."
"Still on business?" Mr. Pralinsky observed affably, in a slightly
ingratiating tone, playing with his hat. It seemed to him as though they
were forgetting him.
Stepan Nikiforovitch raised his eyebrows and remained mute, as a sign that
he would not detain his visitors. Semyon Ivanovitch made haste to bow
himself out.
"Well ... after that what is one to expect ... if you don't understand the
simple rules of good manners...." Mr. Pralinsky reflected to himself, and
held out his hand to Stepan Nikiforovitch in a particularly offhand way.
In the hall Ivan Ilyitch wrapped himself up in his light, expensive fur
coat; he tried for some reason not to notice Semyon Ivanovitch's shabby
raccoon, and they both began descending the stairs.
"The old man seemed offended," said Ivan Ilyitch to the silent Semyon
Ivanovitch.
"No, why?" answered the latter with cool composure.
"Servile flunkey," Ivan Ilyitch thought to himself.
They went out at the front door. Semyon Ivanovitch's sledge with a grey
ugly horse drove up.
"What the devil! What has Trifon done with my carriage?" cried Ivan
Ilyitch, not seeing his carriage.
The carriage was nowhere to be seen. Stepan Nikiforovitch's servant knew
nothing about it. They appealed to Varlam, Semyon Ivanovitch's coachman,
and received the answer that he had been standing there all the time and
that the carriage had been there, but now there was no sign of it.
"An unpleasant predicament," Mr. Shipulenko pronounced. "Shall I take you
home?"
"Scoundrelly people!" Mr. Pralinsky cried with fury. "He asked me, the
rascal, to let him go to a wedding close here in the Petersburg Side; some
crony of his was getting married, deuce take her! I sternly forbade him to
absent himself, and now I'll bet he has gone off there."
"He certainly has gone there, sir," observed Varlam; "but he promised to be
back in a minute, to be here in time, that is."
"Well, there it is! I had a presentiment that this would happen! I'll give
it to him!"
"You'd better give him a good flogging once or twice at the police station,
then he will do what you tell him," said Semyon Ivanovitch, as he wrapped
the rug round him.
"Please don't you trouble, Semyon Ivanovitch!"
