Nothing at that moment could be much more inviting to Dunsey than the
bright fire on the brick hearth: he walked in and seated himself by it
at once.  There was something in front of the fire, too, that would
have been inviting to a hungry man, if it had been in a different stage
of cooking.  It was a small bit of pork suspended from the
kettle-hanger by a string passed through a large door-key, in a way
known to primitive housekeepers unpossessed of jacks.  But the pork had
been hung at the farthest extremity of the hanger, apparently to
prevent the roasting from proceeding too rapidly during the owner's
absence.  The old staring simpleton had hot meat for his supper, then?
thought Dunstan.  People had always said he lived on mouldy bread, on
purpose to check his appetite.  But where could he be at this time, and
on such an evening, leaving his supper in this stage of preparation,
and his door unfastened?  Dunstan's own recent difficulty in making his
way suggested to him that the weaver had perhaps gone outside his
cottage to fetch in fuel, or for some such brief purpose, and had
slipped into the Stone-pit.  That was an interesting idea to Dunstan,
carrying consequences of entire novelty.  If the weaver was dead, who
had a right to his money?  Who would know where his money was hidden?
_Who would know that anybody had come to take it away?_  He went no
farther into the subtleties of evidence: the pressing question, "Where
_is_ the money?"  now took such entire possession of him as to make him
quite forget that the weaver's death was not a certainty.  A dull mind,
once arriving at an inference that flatters a desire, is rarely able to
retain the impression that the notion from which the inference started
was purely problematic.  And Dunstan's mind was as dull as the mind of
a possible felon usually is.  There were only three hiding-places where
he had ever heard of cottagers' hoards being found: the thatch, the
bed, and a hole in the floor.  Marner's cottage had no thatch; and
Dunstan's first act, after a train of thought made rapid by the
stimulus of cupidity, was to go up to the bed; but while he did so, his
eyes travelled eagerly over the floor, where the bricks, distinct in
the fire-light, were discernible under the sprinkling of sand.  But not
everywhere; for there was one spot, and one only, which was quite
covered with sand, and sand showing the marks of fingers, which had
apparently been careful to spread it over a given space.  It was near
the treddles of the loom.  In an instant Dunstan darted to that spot,
swept away the sand with his whip, and, inserting the thin end of the
hook between the bricks, found that they were loose.  In haste he
lifted up two bricks, and saw what he had no doubt was the object of
his search; for what could there be but money in those two leathern
bags?  And, from their weight, they must be filled with guineas.
Dunstan felt round the hole, to be certain that it held no more; then
hastily replaced the bricks, and spread the sand over them.  Hardly
more than five minutes had passed since he entered the cottage, but it
seemed to Dunstan like a long while; and though he was without any
distinct recognition of the possibility that Marner might be alive, and
might re-enter the cottage at any moment, he felt an undefinable dread
laying hold on him, as he rose to his feet with the bags in his hand.
He would hasten out into the darkness, and then consider what he should
do with the bags.  He closed the door behind him immediately, that he
might shut in the stream of light: a few steps would be enough to carry
him beyond betrayal by the gleams from the shutter-chinks and the
latch-hole.  The rain and darkness had got thicker, and he was glad of
it; though it was awkward walking with both hands filled, so that it
was as much as he could do to grasp his whip along with one of the
bags.  But when he had gone a yard or two, he might take his time.  So
he stepped forward into the darkness.
