"You are right; it is _not_ age alone that makes him so unlike his once
cheerful, active self; it is--bend lower, dear, and never breathe to any
one what I tell you now, only that you may help me save your father's
life, perhaps."
Startled by the almost solemn earnestness of these words, Portia laid
her head upon the pillow, and twilight wrapt the room in its soft gloom,
as if to shut out all the world, while the mother told the daughter the
danger that threatened him whom they both so loved and honored.
"Papa has fallen into the way of taking more wine after dinner than is
good for him. He does not know how the habit is growing upon him, and is
hurt if I hint at such a thing. But Dr. Hall warned me of the danger
after papa's last ill turn, saying that at his age and with his
temperament apoplexy would be sure to follow over-indulgence of this
sort."
"O mamma, what can I do?" whispered Portia, with a thrill, as the words
of Pris returned to her with sudden force, "It killed my father, broke
mother's heart, and left me all alone."
"Watch over him, dear, amuse him as you only can, and wean him from this
unsuspected harm by all the innocent arts your daughterly love can
devise. I have kept this to myself, because it is hard for a wife to see
any fault in her husband; still harder for her to speak of it even to so
good a child as mine. But my anxiety unfits me to do all I might, so I
need help; and of whom can I ask it but of you? My darling, make a
little league with mother, and let us watch and pray in secret for this
dear man who is all in all to us."
What Portia answered, what comfort she gave, and what further
confidences she received, may not be told, for this household covenant
was too sacred for report. No visible badge was assumed, no audible vow
taken, but in the wife's face, as it smiled on her husband that night,
there was a tenderer light than ever, and the kiss that welcomed papa
was the seal upon a purpose as strong as the daughter's love.
Usually the ladies left the Judge to read his paper and take his wine in
the old-fashioned way, while they had coffee in the drawing-room. As
they rose, Portia saw the shadow fall upon her mother's face, which she
had often seen before, but never understood till now; for _this_ was the
dangerous hour, this the moment when the child must stand between
temptation and her father, if she could.
That evening, very soon after the servant had cleared the table of all
but the decanters, a fresh young voice singing blithely in the parlor
made the Judge put down his glass to listen in pleased surprise.
Presently he stepped across the hall to set both doors open, saying, in
a half reproachful tone,--
