A secret council of the distributionists was held that night, with Mrs.
Johnson Parker in the chair, to consider of the best means of recovering
the ground they had lost in the favour of the parish.  What could be
done?  Another meeting!  Alas! who was to attend it?  The Missionary
would not do twice; and the slaves were emancipated.  A bold step must be
taken.  The parish must be astonished in some way or other; but no one
was able to suggest what the step should be.  At length, a very old lady
was heard to mumble, in indistinct tones, 'Exeter Hall.'  A sudden light
broke in upon the meeting.  It was unanimously resolved, that a
deputation of old ladies should wait upon a celebrated orator, imploring
his assistance, and the favour of a speech; and the deputation should
also wait on two or three other imbecile old women, not resident in the
parish, and entreat their attendance.  The application was successful,
the meeting was held; the orator (an Irishman) came.  He talked of green
isles--other shores--vast Atlantic--bosom of the deep--Christian
charity--blood and extermination--mercy in hearts--arms in hands--altars
and homes--household gods.  He wiped his eyes, he blew his nose, and he
quoted Latin.  The effect was tremendous--the Latin was a decided hit.
Nobody knew exactly what it was about, but everybody knew it must be
affecting, because even the orator was overcome.  The popularity of the
distribution society among the ladies of our parish is unprecedented; and
the child's examination is going fast to decay.
CHAPTER VII--OUR NEXT-DOOR NEIGHBOUR
We are very fond of speculating as we walk through a street, on the
character and pursuits of the people who inhabit it; and nothing so
materially assists us in these speculations as the appearance of the
house doors.  The various expressions of the human countenance afford a
beautiful and interesting study; but there is something in the
physiognomy of street-door knockers, almost as characteristic, and nearly
as infallible.  Whenever we visit a man for the first time, we
contemplate the features of his knocker with the greatest curiosity, for
we well know, that between the man and his knocker, there will inevitably
be a greater or less degree of resemblance and sympathy.
For instance, there is one description of knocker that used to be common
enough, but which is fast passing away--a large round one, with the jolly
face of a convivial lion smiling blandly at you, as you twist the sides
of your hair into a curl or pull up your shirt-collar while you are
waiting for the door to be opened; we never saw that knocker on the door
of a churlish man--so far as our experience is concerned, it invariably
bespoke hospitality and another bottle.
No man ever saw this knocker on the door of a small attorney or
bill-broker; they always patronise the other lion; a heavy
ferocious-looking fellow, with a countenance expressive of savage
stupidity--a sort of grand master among the knockers, and a great
favourite with the selfish and brutal.
