Kit shook his head.
"Then I'm sorry for you, pardner.  They ain't no grub in the country,
and they'll drop you cold as soon as they hit Dawson.  Men are going to
starve there this winter."
"They agreed--" Kit began.
"Verbal," Shorty snapped him short.  "It's your say so against theirs,
that's all.  Well, anyway--what's your name, pardner?"
"Call me Smoke," said Kit.
"Well, Smoke, you'll have a run for your verbal contract just the same.
This is a plain sample of what to expect.  They can sure shed mazuma,
but they can't work, or turn out of bed in the morning.  We should have
been loaded and started an hour ago.  It's you an' me for the big work.
Pretty soon you'll hear 'em shoutin' for their coffee--in bed, mind
you, and they grown men.  What d'ye know about boatin' on the water?
I'm a cowman and a prospector, but I'm sure tender-footed on water, an'
they don't know punkins.  What d'ye know?"
"Search me," Kit answered, snuggling in closer under the tarpaulin as
the snow whirled before a fiercer gust.  "I haven't been on a small
boat since a boy.  But I guess we can learn."
A corner of the tarpaulin tore loose, and Shorty received a jet of
driven snow down the back of his neck.
"Oh, we can learn all right," he muttered wrathfully.  "Sure we can. A
child can learn.  But it's dollars to doughnuts we don't even get
started to-day."
It was eight o'clock when the call for coffee came from the tent, and
nearly nine before the two employers emerged.
"Hello," said Sprague, a rosy-cheeked, well-fed young man of
twenty-five.  "Time we made a start, Shorty.  You and--"  Here he
glanced interrogatively at Kit.  "I didn't quite catch your name last
evening."
"Smoke."
"Well, Shorty, you and Mr Smoke had better begin loading the boat."
"Plain Smoke--cut out the Mister," Kit suggested.
Sprague nodded curtly and strolled away among the tents, to be followed
by Doctor Stine, a slender, pallid young man.
Shorty looked significantly at his companion.
"Over a ton and a half of outfit, and they won't lend a hand. You'll
see."
"I guess it's because we're paid to do the work," Kit answered
cheerfully, "and we might as well buck in."
To move three thousand pounds on the shoulders a hundred yards was no
slight task, and to do it in half a gale, slushing through the snow in
heavy rubber boots, was exhausting.  In addition, there was the taking
down of the tent and the packing of small camp equipage. Then came the
loading.  As the boat settled, it had to be shoved farther and farther
out, increasing the distance they had to wade. By two o'clock it had
all been accomplished, and Kit, despite his two breakfasts, was weak
with the faintness of hunger.  His knees were shaking under him.
Shorty, in similar predicament, foraged through the pots and pans, and
drew forth a big pot of cold boiled beans in which were imbedded large
chunks of bacon.  There was only one spoon, a long-handled one, and
they dipped, turn and turn about, into the pot.  Kit was filled with an
immense certitude that in all his life he had never tasted anything so
good.
