"Lord, man," he mumbled between chews, "I never knew what appetite was
till I hit the trail."
Sprague and Stine arrived in the midst of this pleasant occupation.
"What's the delay?" Sprague complained. "Aren't we ever going to get
started?"
Shorty dipped in turn, and passed the spoon to Kit.  Nor did either
speak till the pot was empty and the bottom scraped.
"Of course we ain't ben doin' nothing," Shorty said, wiping his mouth
with the back of his hand.  "We ain't ben doin' nothing at all.  And of
course you ain't had nothing to eat.  It was sure careless of me."
"Yes, yes," Stine said quickly.  "We ate at one of the tents--friends
of ours."
"Thought so," Shorty grunted.
"But now that you're finished, let us get started," Sprague urged.
"There's the boat," said Shorty.  "She's sure loaded.  Now, just how
might you be goin' about to get started?"
"By climbing aboard and shoving off.  Come on."
They waded out, and the employers got on board, while Kit and Shorty
shoved clear.  When the waves lapped the tops of their boots they
clambered in.  The other two men were not prepared with the oars, and
the boat swept back and grounded.  Half a dozen times, with a great
expenditure of energy, this was repeated.
Shorty sat down disconsolately on the gunwale, took a chew of tobacco,
and questioned the universe, while Kit baled the boat and the other two
exchanged unkind remarks.
"If you'll take my orders, I'll get her off," Sprague finally said.
The attempt was well intended, but before he could clamber on board he
was wet to the waist.
"We've got to camp and build a fire," he said, as the boat grounded
again.  "I'm freezing."
"Don't be afraid of a wetting," Stine sneered.  "Other men have gone
off to-day wetter than you.  Now I'm going to take her out."
This time it was he who got the wetting, and who announced with
chattering teeth the need of a fire.
"A little splash like that," Sprague chattered spitefully.  "We'll go
on."
"Shorty, dig out my clothes-bag and make a fire," the other commanded.
"You'll do nothing of the sort," Sprague cried.
Shorty looked from one to the other, expectorated, but did not move.
"He's working for me, and I guess he obeys my orders," Stine retorted.
"Shorty, take that bag ashore."
Shorty obeyed, and Sprague shivered in the boat.  Kit, having received
no orders, remained inactive, glad of the rest.
"A boat divided against itself won't float," he soliloquized.
"What's that?" Sprague snarled at him.
"Talking to myself--habit of mine," he answered.
His employer favoured him with a hard look, and sulked several minutes
longer.  Then he surrendered.
"Get out my bag, Smoke," he ordered, "and lend a hand with that fire.
We won't get off till the morning now."
II.
Next day the gale still blew.  Lake Linderman was no more than a narrow
mountain gorge filled with water.  Sweeping down from the mountains
through this funnel, the wind was irregular, blowing great guns at
times and at other times dwindling to a strong breeze.
