"Ten pounds of junk," he sneered, as he unbuckled it.
He did not bother to hang it on a tree, but flung it into the
underbush.  And as the steady tide of packers flowed by him, up trail
and down, he noted that the other tender-feet were beginning to shed
their shooting irons.
His short hauls decreased.  At times a hundred feet was all he could
stagger, and then the ominous pounding of his heart against his
ear-drums and the sickening totteriness of his knees compelled him to
rest.  And his rests grew longer.  But his mind was busy.  It was a
twenty-eight mile portage, which represented as many days, and this, by
all accounts, was the easiest part of it.  "Wait till you get to
Chilcoot," others told him as they rested and talked, "where you climb
with hands and feet."
"They ain't going to be no Chilcoot," was his answer.  "Not for me.
Long before that I'll be at peace in my little couch beneath the moss."
A slip, and a violent wrenching effort at recovery, frightened him. He
felt that everything inside him had been torn asunder.
"If ever I fall down with this on my back I'm a goner," he told another
packer.
"That's nothing," came the answer.  "Wait till you hit the Canyon.
You'll have to cross a raging torrent on a sixty-foot pine tree.  No
guide ropes, nothing, and the water boiling at the sag of the log to
your knees.  If you fall with a pack on your back, there's no getting
out of the straps.  You just stay there and drown."
"Sounds good to me," he retorted; and out of the depths of his
exhaustion he almost half meant it.
"They drown three or four a day there," the man assured him.  "I helped
fish a German out there.  He had four thousand in greenbacks on him."
"Cheerful, I must say," said Kit, battling his way to his feet and
tottering on.
He and the sack of beans became a perambulating tragedy.  It reminded
him of the old man of the sea who sat on Sinbad's neck. And this was
one of those intensely masculine vacations, he meditated.  Compared
with it, the servitude to O'Hara was sweet. Again and again he was
nearly seduced by the thought of abandoning the sack of beans in the
brush and of sneaking around the camp to the beach and catching a
steamer for civilization.
But he didn't.  Somewhere in him was the strain of the hard, and he
repeated over and over to himself that what other men could do, he
could.  It became a nightmare chant, and he gibbered it to those that
passed him on the trail.  At other times, resting, he watched and
envied the stolid, mule-footed Indians that plodded by under heavier
packs.  They never seemed to rest, but went on and on with a steadiness
and certitude that was to him appalling.
He sat and cursed--he had no breath for it when under way--and fought
the temptation to sneak back to San Francisco.  Before the mile pack
was ended he ceased cursing and took to crying.  The tears were tears
of exhaustion and of disgust with self.  If ever a man was a wreck, he
was.  As the end of the pack came in sight, he strained himself in
desperation, gained the camp-site, and pitched forward on his face, the
beans on his back.  It did not kill him, but he lay for fifteen minutes
before he could summon sufficient shreds of strength to release himself
from the straps.  Then he became deathly sick, and was so found by
Robbie, who had similar troubles of his own.  It was this sickness of
Robbie that braced him up.
