But work as they would, the toil increased.  The trail grew more
rugged; their packs grew heavier; and each day saw the snow-line
dropping down the mountains, while freight jumped to sixty cents. No
word came from the cousins beyond, so they knew they must be at work
chopping down the standing trees, and whipsawing them into boat-planks.
John Bellew grew anxious.  Capturing a bunch of Indians back-tripping
from Lake Linderman, he persuaded them to put their straps on the
outfit.  They charged thirty cents a pound to carry it to the summit of
Chilcoot, and it nearly broke him.  As it was, some four hundred pounds
of clothes-bags and camp outfit was not handled.  He remained behind to
move it along, dispatching Kit with the Indians.  At the summit Kit was
to remain, slowly moving his ton until overtaken by the four hundred
pounds with which his uncle guaranteed to catch him.
V.
Kit plodded along the trail with his Indian packers.  In recognition of
the fact that it was to be a long pack, straight to the top of
Chilcoot, his own load was only eighty pounds.  The Indians plodded
under their loads, but it was a quicker gait than he had practised. Yet
he felt no apprehension, and by now had come to deem himself almost the
equal of an Indian.
At the end of a quarter of a mile he desired to rest.  But the Indians
kept on.  He stayed with them, and kept his place in the line.  At the
half mile he was convinced that he was incapable of another step, yet
he gritted his teeth, kept his place, and at the end of the mile was
amazed that he was still alive.  Then, in some strange way, came the
thing called second wind, and the next mile was almost easier than the
first.  The third mile nearly killed him, and, though half delirious
with pain and fatigue, he never whimpered.  And then, when he felt he
must surely faint, came the rest.  Instead of sitting in the straps, as
was the custom of the white packers, the Indians slipped out of the
shoulder- and head-straps and lay at ease, talking and smoking.  A full
half hour passed before they made another start.  To Kit's surprise he
found himself a fresh man, and 'long hauls and long rests' became his
newest motto.
The pitch of Chilcoot was all he had heard of it, and many were the
occasions when he climbed with hands as well as feet.  But when he
reached the crest of the divide in the thick of a driving snow-squall,
it was in the company of his Indians, and his secret pride was that he
had come through with them and never squealed and never lagged.  To be
almost as good as an Indian was a new ambition to cherish.
When he had paid off the Indians and seen them depart, a stormy
darkness was falling, and he was left alone, a thousand feet above
timber line, on the back-bone of a mountain.  Wet to the waist,
famished and exhausted, he would have given a year's income for a fire
and a cup of coffee.  Instead, he ate half a dozen cold flap-jacks and
crawled into the folds of the partly unrolled tent.  As he dozed off he
had time only for one fleeting thought, and he grinned with vicious
pleasure at the picture of John Bellew in the days to follow,
masculinely back-tripping his four hundred pounds up Chilcoot.  As for
himself, even though burdened with two thousand pounds, he was bound
down the hill.
