Several miles below they ran in to the bank, and all four walked down
to look at the bad water.  The river, which was a succession of rapids,
was here deflected toward the right bank by a rocky reef. The whole
body of water, rushing crookedly into the narrow passage, accelerated
its speed frightfully, and was upflung unto huge waves, white and
wrathful.  This was the dread Mane of the White Horse, and here an even
heavier toll of dead had been exacted.  On one side of the Mane was a
corkscrew curl-over and suck-under, and on the opposite side was the
big whirlpool.  To go through, the Mane itself must be ridden.
"This plum rips the strings outa the Box," Shorty concluded.
As they watched, a boat took the head of the rapids above.  It was a
large boat, fully thirty feet long, laden with several tons of outfit
and handled by six men.  Before it reached the Mane it was plunging and
leaping, at times almost hidden by the foam and spray.
Shorty shot a slow, sidelong glance at Kit, and said:
"She's fair smoking, and she hasn't hit the worst.  They've hauled the
oars in.  There she takes it now.  God!  She's gone!  No; there she is!"
Big as the boat was, it had been buried from sight in the flying
smother between crests.  The next moment, in the thick of the Mane, the
boat leaped up a crest and into view.  To Kit's amazement he saw the
whole long bottom clearly outlined.  The boat, for the fraction of an
instant, was in the air, the men sitting idly in their places, all save
one in the stern who stood at the steering sweep.  Then came the
downward plunge into the trough and a second disappearance. Three times
the boat leaped and buried itself, then those on the bank saw its nose
take the whirlpool as it slipped off the Mane. The steersman, vainly
opposing with his full weight on the steering-gear, surrendered to the
whirlpool and helped the boat to take the circle.
Three times it went around, each time so close to the rocks on which
Kit and Shorty stood, that either could have leaped on board.  The
steersman, a man with a reddish beard of recent growth, waved his hand
to them.  The only way out of the whirlpool was by the Mane, and on the
round the boat entered the Mane obliquely at its upper end.  Possibly
out of fear of the draw of the whirlpool, the steersman did not attempt
to straighten out quickly enough.  When he did, it was too late.
Alternately in the air and buried, the boat angled the Mane and sucked
into and down through the stiff wall of the corkscrew on the opposite
side of the river.  A hundred feet below, boxes and bales began to
float up.  Then appeared the bottom of the boat and the scattered heads
of six men.  Two managed to make the bank in the eddy below.  The
others were drawn under, and the general flotsam was lost to view,
borne on by the swift current around the bend.
