In the darkness of a gale-driven morning, Kit crawled out, built a fire
in his stocking feet, by which he thawed out his frozen shoes, then
boiled coffee and fried bacon.  It was a chilly, miserable meal.  As
soon as finished, they strapped their blankets.  As John Bellew turned
to lead the way toward the Chilcoot Trail, Kit held out his hand.
"Good-bye, avuncular," he said.
John Bellew looked at him and swore in his surprise.
"Don't forget my name's Smoke," Kit chided.
"But what are you going to do?"
Kit waved his hand in a general direction northward over the
storm-lashed lake.
"What's the good of turning back after getting this far?" he asked.
"Besides, I've got my taste of meat, and I like it.  I'm going on."
"You're broke," protested John Bellew.  "You have no outfit."
"I've got a job.  Behold your nephew, Christopher Smoke Bellew! He's
got a job at a hundred and fifty per month and grub.  He's going down
to Dawson with a couple of dudes and another gentleman's
man--camp-cook, boatman, and general all-around hustler.  And O'Hara
and the Billow can go to hell.  Good-bye."
But John Bellew was dazed, and could only mutter:
"I don't understand."
"They say the baldface grizzlies are thick in the Yukon Basin," Kit
explained.  "Well, I've got only one suit of underclothes, and I'm
going after the bear-meat, that's all."
THE MEAT.
I.
Half the time the wind blew a gale, and Smoke Bellew staggered against
it along the beach.  In the gray of dawn a dozen boats were being
loaded with the precious outfits packed across Chilcoot.  They were
clumsy, home-made boats, put together by men who were not
boat-builders, out of planks they had sawed by hand from green spruce
trees.  One boat, already loaded, was just starting, and Kit paused to
watch.
The wind, which was fair down the lake, here blew in squarely on the
beach, kicking up a nasty sea in the shallows.  The men of the
departing boat waded in high rubber boots as they shoved it out toward
deeper water.  Twice they did this.  Clambering aboard and failing to
row clear, the boat was swept back and grounded.  Kit noticed that the
spray on the sides of the boat quickly turned to ice.  The third
attempt was a partial success.  The last two men to climb in were wet
to their waists, but the boat was afloat.  They struggled awkwardly at
the heavy oars, and slowly worked off shore. Then they hoisted a sail
made of blankets, had it carried away in a gust, and were swept a third
time back on the freezing beach.
Kit grinned to himself and went on.  This was what he must expect to
encounter, for he, too, in his new role of gentleman's man, was to
start from the beach in a similar boat that very day.
Everywhere men were at work, and at work desperately, for the closing
down of winter was so imminent that it was a gamble whether or not they
would get across the great chain of lakes before the freeze-up.  Yet,
when Kit arrived at the tent of Messrs Sprague and Stine, he did not
find them stirring.
