"No, Mr. Click.  I am lawfully in the Art line--Fine-Art line--but I can
say no more."
"Ah!  Under a species of star?  A kind of malignant spell?  A sort of a
gloomy destiny?  A cankerworm pegging away at your vitals in secret, as
well as I make it out?" said Mr. Click, eyeing me with some admiration.
I told Mr. Click that was about it, if we came to particulars; and I
thought he appeared rather proud of me.
Our conversation had brought us to a crowd of people, the greater part
struggling for a front place from which to see something on the pavement,
which proved to be various designs executed in coloured chalks on the
pavement stones, lighted by two candles stuck in mud sconces.  The
subjects consisted of a fine fresh salmon's head and shoulders, supposed
to have been recently sent home from the fishmonger's; a moonlight night
at sea (in a circle); dead game; scroll-work; the head of a hoary hermit
engaged in devout contemplation; the head of a pointer smoking a pipe;
and a cherubim, his flesh creased as in infancy, going on a horizontal
errand against the wind.  All these subjects appeared to me to be
exquisitely done.
On his knees on one side of this gallery, a shabby person of modest
appearance who shivered dreadfully (though it wasn't at all cold), was
engaged in blowing the chalk-dust off the moon, toning the outline of the
back of the hermit's head with a bit of leather, and fattening the down-
stroke of a letter or two in the writing.  I have forgotten to mention
that writing formed a part of the composition, and that it also--as it
appeared to me--was exquisitely done.  It ran as follows, in fine round
characters: "An honest man is the noblest work of God.  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
0.  Pounds s. d.  Employment in an office is humbly requested.  Honour
the Queen.  Hunger is a 0 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 sharp thorn.  Chip chop,
cherry chop, fol de rol de ri do.  Astronomy and mathematics.  I do this
to support my family."
Murmurs of admiration at the exceeding beauty of this performance went
about among the crowd.  The artist, having finished his touching (and
having spoilt those places), took his seat on the pavement, with his
knees crouched up very nigh his chin; and halfpence began to rattle in.
"A pity to see a man of that talent brought so low; ain't it?" said one
of the crowd to me.
"What he might have done in the coach-painting, or house-decorating!"
said another man, who took up the first speaker because I did not.
"Why, he writes--alone--like the Lord Chancellor!" said another man.
"Better," said another.  "I know his writing.  He couldn't support his
family this way."
Then, a woman noticed the natural fluffiness of the hermit's hair, and
another woman, her friend, mentioned of the salmon's gills that you could
almost see him gasp.  Then, an elderly country gentleman stepped forward
and asked the modest man how he executed his work?  And the modest man
took some scraps of brown paper with colours in 'em out of his pockets,
and showed them.  Then a fair-complexioned donkey, with sandy hair and
spectacles, asked if the hermit was a portrait?  To which the modest man,
casting a sorrowful glance upon it, replied that it was, to a certain
extent, a recollection of his father.  This caused a boy to yelp out, "Is
the Pinter a smoking the pipe your mother?" who was immediately shoved
out of view by a sympathetic carpenter with his basket of tools at his
back.
