"Then I _may_ go?" cried Eli, upsetting his mug of cider in his
excitement.
His father nodded, being too busy eating cabbage with a wide-bladed
green-handled knife to speak just then. Eli, red and speechless with
delight and gratitude, could only sit and beam at his family till a sob
drew his attention to sister Pamela, whose pet he was.
"Don't, Pam, don't! I'll come back all right, and bring you news and all
the pretty things I can. I _must_ go; I feel as if I couldn't breathe,
shut up here winters. I s'pose it's wicked, but I can't help it,"
whispered Eli, with his arm around his buxom eighteen-year old sister,
who laid her head on his shoulder and held him tight.
"Daughter, it's sinful to repine at the ways of Providence. I see a
leadin' plain in this, and ef _I_ can be chirk when my dear boy is
goin', 'pears to me you ought to keep a taut rein on your feelin's, and
not spile his pleasure."
The good mother's eyes were full of tears as she spoke, but she caught
up the end of her short gown and wiped them quickly away to smile on
Eli, who thanked her with a loving look.
"It's so lonesome when he's not here. What will we do evenings without
the fiddle, or Eli to read a piece in some of his books while we spin?"
said poor Pam, ashamed of her grief, yet glad to hide her tears by
affecting to settle the long wooden bodkin that held up her coils of
brown hair.
"Obed Finch will be comin' along, I guess likely, and he'll read to you
out uv Eli's book about keepin' the heart, and you'll find your'n gone
'fore you know it," said Junius Solomon, in a tone that made pretty Pam
blush and run away, while the rest laughed at her confusion.
So it was settled, and when all was ready, the boy came home to show his
equipment before he started. A very modest outfit,--only two tin trunks
slung across the shoulders, filled with jewelry, combs, lace, essences,
and small wares.
"I hate to have ye go, son, but it's better than to be mopin' to hum,
gettin' desperut for books and rilin' father. We'll all be workin' for
ye, so be chipper and do wal. Keep steddy, and don't disgrace your
folks. The Lord bless ye, my dear boy, and hold ye in the holler of his
hand!"
Her own rough hand was on his head as his mother spoke, with wet eyes,
and the tall lad kissed her tenderly, whispering, with a choke in his
throat:--
"Good-by, mammy dear; I'll remember."
Then he tramped away to join his mate, turning now and then to nod and
smile and show a ruddy face full of happiness, while the family watched
him out of sight with mingled hopes and doubts and fears.
Mails were slow in those days, but at length a letter came; and here it
is,--a true copy of one written by a boy in 1820:--
