At this artless bit of vanity, the girls smiled, but all agreed that
grandma was right, as they looked at the portraits with fresh interest.
"I call that a pretty good story," said Walt, with the air of an
accomplished critic.
"'Specially the wolf part. I wanted that longer," added Geoff.
"It was quite long enough for me, my dear, and I didn't hear the last of
it for years. Why, one of my wedding presents was four hams done up
elegantly in white paper, with posies on 'em, from the Major. He loved a
joke, and never forgot how well we fought with the pigs' legs that
night. Joe gave me a new sleigh, the next Christmas, with two wolf-skin
robes for it,--shot the beasts himself, and I kept those rugs till the
moths ate the last bit. He kept the leavings of my slippers, and I have
them still. Fetch 'em, Minnie--you know where they are."
Grandma pointed to the tall secretary that stood in a corner, and Minnie
quickly took a box from one of the many drawers. All the heads clustered
around grandma, and the faded, ragged shoes went from hand to hand,
while questions rained upon the story-teller till she bade them go to
bed.
Nothing but the promise of more tales would appease them; then, with
thanks and kisses, the young folks trooped away, leaving the old lady to
put the little wheel to rights, and sit thinking over her girlhood, in
the fire-light.
[Illustration]
TABBY'S TABLE CLOTH
The storm kept on all night, and next morning the drifts were higher,
the wind stronger, and the snow falling faster than ever. Through the
day the children roved about the great house, amusing themselves as best
they could; and, when evening came, they gathered around the fire again,
eager for the promised story from grandmamma.
"I've a little cold," said the old lady, "and am too hoarse for talking,
my dears; but Aunt Elinor has looked up a parcel of old tales that I've
told her at different times and which she has written down. You will
like to hear her reading better than my dull way of telling them, and I
can help Minnie and Lotty with their work, for I see they are bent on
learning to spin."
The young folk were well pleased with grandma's proposal; for Aunt Nell
was a favorite with all, being lively and kind and fond of children, and
the only maiden aunt in the family. Now, she smilingly produced a faded
old portfolio, and, turning over a little pile of manuscripts, said in
her pleasant way:--
"Here are all sorts, picked up in my travels at home and abroad; and in
order to suit all of you, I have put the names on slips of paper into
this basket, and each can draw one in turn. Does that please my
distinguished audience?"
"Yes, yes. Geoff's the oldest, let him draw first," cried the flock,
fluttering like a flight of birds before they settle.
