Now, he was writing in his journal very slowly, but very well, shaping
his letters with unusual grace and freedom; for the wide snow-banks were
his copy-books in winter, and on their white pages he had learned to
sweep splendid capitals or link syllables handsomely together. This is
what he wrote that night, with a sparkle in the blue eyes and a firm
folding of the lips that made the boyish face resolute and manly.
     "I am set in my own mind that I get learning. I see not how, but my
     will is strong, and mother hopes for to make a scholar of me. So,
     please God, we shall do it."
Then he shut the little book and put it carefully away in the blue
chest, with pen and ink, as if they were very precious things; piously
said his prayers, and was soon asleep under the homespun coverlet,
dreaming splendid dreams, while a great bright star looked in at the low
window, as if waiting to show him the road to fortune.
And God did please to help the patient lad; only the next evening came
an opportunity he had never imagined. As he sat playing "Over the Hills
and Far Away" on the fiddle that he had himself made out of maple-wood,
with a bow strung from the tail of the old farm horse, a neighbor came
in to talk over the fall pork and cider, and tell the news.
"Ef you want ter go over the hills and far away, Eli, here's the chance.
I see a man down to Woodtick who was askin' ef I knew any likely young
chap who'd like to git 'scribers for a pious book he wants to sell. He'd
pay for the job when the names is got and the books give out. That's
ruther in your line, boy, so I calk'lated your daddy would spare you, as
you ain't much of a hand at shuckin' corn nor cartin' pummace."
"Haw! haw!" laughed the big brothers, Ambrose Vitruvius and Junius
Solomon, as neighbor Terry spoke with a sly twinkle in his eye.
But the sisters, Miranda and Pamela, smiled for joy, while the good
mother stopped her busy wheel to listen eagerly. Eli laid down his
fiddle and came to the hearth where the others sat, with such a
wide-awake expression on his usually thoughtful face that it was plain
that he liked the idea.
"I'll do it, if father'll let me," he said, looking wistfully at the
industrious man, who was shaving axe-handles for the winter
wood-chopping, after his day's work was over.
"Wal, I can spare you for a week, mebby. It's not time for the clock
shop yet, and sence you've heerd o' this, you won't do your chores
right, so you may as wal see what you can make of peddlin'."
"Thank you, sir; I'll give you all I get, to pay for my time," began
Eli, glowing with pleasure at the prospect of seeing a little of the
world; for one of his most cherished dreams was to cross the blue hills
that hemmed him in, and find what lay beyond.
