"Well, we were skimming along pleasantly enough, I rather sleepy, and
Joe very careful of me, when, just as I was beginning to doze a bit with
my head on his arm I felt him start. Old Buck, the horse, gave a jump
that woke me up, and in a minute I knew what the trouble was, for from
behind us came the howl of a wolf.
"'Just the night to bring 'em out,' muttered Joe, using the whip till
Buck went at his quickest trot, with his ears down and every sign of
hurry and worry about him.
"'Are you afraid of them?' I asked, for I'd never had a scare of this
sort, though I'd heard other people tell of the fierceness of the brutes
when hunger made them bold.
"'Not a bit, only I wish I had my gun along,' said Joe, looking over his
shoulder anxiously.
"'Pity I hadn't brought mine--I do so well with it,' I said, and I
laughed as I remembered how I aimed at Joe and hurt myself.
"'Are they chasing us?' I asked, standing up to look back along the
white road, for we were just on the edge of the woods now.
"'Shouldn't wonder. If I had a better horse it would be a lively race;
but Buck can't keep this pace long, and if he founders we are in a fix,
for I can't run, and you can't fight. Betsey, there's more than one;
hold tight and try to count 'em.'
"Something in Joe's voice told me plainer than words that we were in
danger, and I wished we'd waited till the rest of our party came; but I
was tired, and so we had started alone.
"Straining my eyes, I could see _three_ black spots on the snow, and
hear three howls as the wolves came galloping after us. I was a brave
girl, but I'd never tried this kind of thing before, and in a minute all
the wolf stories I'd ever heard came flying through my mind. I _was_
mortally afeard, but I wouldn't show it, and turned to Joe, trying to
laugh as I said: 'Only three as yet. Tell me just what to do, and I'll
do it.'
"'Brave lass! I must see to Buck or he'll be down, for he's badly
scared. You wait till the rascals are pretty close, then heave over one
of these confounded hams to amuse 'em, while we make the most of their
halt. They smell this meat, and that's what they are after,' said Joe,
driving his best, for the poor old horse began to pant, and limp on his
stiff legs.
"'Lucky for us we've got 'em,' says I, bound to be cool and gay; 'if we
hadn't, they'd get fresh meat instead of smoked.'
"Joe laughed, but a long howl close by made me dive for a ham; for in
the darkness of the woods the beasts had got closer, and now all I could
see were several balls of fire not many yards away. Out went the ham,
and a snarling sound showed that the wolves were busy eating it.
