Granice paused. He had dropped into a chair opposite the lawyer's, and
he sat for a moment, his head thrown back, looking about the familiar
room. Everything in it had grown grimacing and alien, and each strange
insistent object seemed craning forward from its place to hear him.
"It was I who put the stuff in the melon," he said. "And I don't want
you to think I'm sorry for it. This isn't 'remorse,' understand. I'm
glad the old skin-flint is dead--I'm glad the others have their money.
But mine's no use to me any more. My sister married miserably, and died.
And I've never had what I wanted."
Ascham continued to stare; then he said: "What on earth was your object,
then?"
"Why, to _get_ what I wanted--what I fancied was in reach! I wanted
change, rest, _life_, for both of us--wanted, above all, for myself, the
chance to write! I travelled, got back my health, and came home to
tie myself up to my work. And I've slaved at it steadily for ten years
without reward--without the most distant hope of success! Nobody will
look at my stuff. And now I'm fifty, and I'm beaten, and I know it."
His chin dropped forward on his breast. "I want to chuck the whole
business," he ended.
III
IT was after midnight when Ascham left.
His hand on Granice's shoulder, as he turned to go--"District Attorney
be hanged; see a doctor, see a doctor!" he had cried; and so, with an
exaggerated laugh, had pulled on his coat and departed.
Granice turned back into the library. It had never occurred to him that
Ascham would not believe his story. For three hours he had explained,
elucidated, patiently and painfully gone over every detail--but without
once breaking down the iron incredulity of the lawyer's eye.
At first Ascham had feigned to be convinced--but that, as Granice now
perceived, was simply to get him to expose himself, to entrap him into
contradictions. And when the attempt failed, when Granice triumphantly
met and refuted each disconcerting question, the lawyer dropped the mask
suddenly, and said with a good-humoured laugh: "By Jove, Granice you'll
write a successful play yet. The way you've worked this all out is a
marvel."
Granice swung about furiously--that last sneer about the play inflamed
him. Was all the world in a conspiracy to deride his failure?
"I did it, I did it," he muttered sullenly, his rage spending itself
against the impenetrable surface of the other's mockery; and Ascham
answered with a smile: "Ever read any of those books on hallucination?
I've got a fairly good medico-legal library. I could send you one or two
if you like..."
Left alone, Granice cowered down in the chair before his writing-table.
He understood that Ascham thought him off his head.
"Good God--what if they all think me crazy?"
The horror of it broke out over him in a cold sweat--he sat there and
shook, his eyes hidden in his icy hands. But gradually, as he began
to rehearse his story for the thousandth time, he saw again how
incontrovertible it was, and felt sure that any criminal lawyer would
believe him.
