"In you? Oh, he thinks it's overwork--overwork and too much smoking. If
you look in on him some day at his office he'll show you the record of
hundreds of cases like yours, and advise you what treatment to follow.
It's one of the commonest forms of hallucination. Have a cigar, all the
same."
"But, Allonby, I killed that man!"
The District Attorney's large hand, outstretched on his desk, had an
almost imperceptible gesture, and a moment later, as if an answer to the
call of an electric bell, a clerk looked in from the outer office.
"Sorry, my dear fellow--lot of people waiting. Drop in on Stell some
morning," Allonby said, shaking hands.
McCarren had to own himself beaten: there was absolutely no flaw in the
alibi. And since his duty to his journal obviously forbade his wasting
time on insoluble mysteries, he ceased to frequent Granice, who dropped
back into a deeper isolation. For a day or two after his visit to
Allonby he continued to live in dread of Dr. Stell. Why might not
Allonby have deceived him as to the alienist's diagnosis? What if he
were really being shadowed, not by a police agent but by a mad-doctor?
To have the truth out, he suddenly determined to call on Dr. Stell.
The physician received him kindly, and reverted without embarrassment
to the conditions of their previous meeting. "We have to do that
occasionally, Mr. Granice; it's one of our methods. And you had given
Allonby a fright."
Granice was silent. He would have liked to reaffirm his guilt, to
produce the fresh arguments which had occurred to him since his last
talk with the physician; but he feared his eagerness might be taken
for a symptom of derangement, and he affected to smile away Dr. Stell's
allusion.
"You think, then, it's a case of brain-fag--nothing more?"
"Nothing more. And I should advise you to knock off tobacco. You smoke a
good deal, don't you?"
He developed his treatment, recommending massage, gymnastics, travel, or
any form of diversion that did not--that in short--
Granice interrupted him impatiently. "Oh, I loathe all that--and I'm
sick of travelling."
"H'm. Then some larger interest--politics, reform, philanthropy?
Something to take you out of yourself."
"Yes. I understand," said Granice wearily.
"Above all, don't lose heart. I see hundreds of cases like yours," the
doctor added cheerfully from the threshold.
On the doorstep Granice stood still and laughed. Hundreds of cases like
his--the case of a man who had committed a murder, who confessed his
guilt, and whom no one would believe! Why, there had never been a case
like it in the world. What a good figure Stell would have made in a
play: the great alienist who couldn't read a man's mind any better than
that!
Granice saw huge comic opportunities in the type.
But as he walked away, his fears dispelled, the sense of listlessness
returned on him. For the first time since his avowal to Peter Ascham
he found himself without an occupation, and understood that he had been
carried through the past weeks only by the necessity of constant action.
Now his life had once more become a stagnant backwater, and as he stood
on the street corner watching the tides of traffic sweep by, he asked
himself despairingly how much longer he could endure to float about in
the sluggish circle of his consciousness.
