It was an uneventful though laughable run from Tiburon to Asparagus
Island, where we arrived in the afternoon of the following day.  The
oyster pirates, a fleet of a dozen sloops, were lying at anchor on what
was known as the “Deserted Beds.”  The _Coal Tar Maggie_ came sloshing
into their midst with a light breeze astern, and they crowded on deck to
see us.  Nicholas and I had caught the spirit of the crazy craft, and we
handled her in most lubberly fashion.
“Wot is it?” some one called.
“Name it ’n’ ye kin have it!” called another.
“I swan naow, ef it ain’t the old Ark itself!” mimicked the Centipede
from the deck of the _Ghost_.
“Hey!  Ahoy there, clipper ship!” another wag shouted.  “Wot’s yer port?”
We took no notice of the joking, but acted, after the manner of
greenhorns, as though the _Coal Tar Maggie_ required our undivided
attention.  I rounded her well to windward of the _Ghost_, and Nicholas
ran for’ard to drop the anchor.  To all appearances it was a bungle, the
way the chain tangled and kept the anchor from reaching the bottom.  And
to all appearances Nicholas and I were terribly excited as we strove to
clear it.  At any rate, we quite deceived the pirates, who took huge
delight in our predicament.
But the chain remained tangled, and amid all kinds of mocking advice we
drifted down upon and fouled the _Ghost_, whose bowsprit poked square
through our mainsail and ripped a hole in it as big as a barn door.  The
Centipede and the Porpoise doubled up on the cabin in paroxysms of
laughter, and left us to get clear as best we could.  This, with much
unseaman-like performance, we succeeded in doing, and likewise in
clearing the anchor-chain, of which we let out about three hundred feet.
With only ten feet of water under us, this would permit the _Coal Tar
Maggie_ to swing in a circle six hundred feet in diameter, in which
circle she would be able to foul at least half the fleet.
The oyster pirates lay snugly together at short hawsers, the weather
being fine, and they protested loudly at our ignorance in putting out
such an unwarranted length of anchor-chain.  And not only did they
protest, for they made us heave it in again, all but thirty feet.
Having sufficiently impressed them with our general lubberliness,
Nicholas and I went below to congratulate ourselves and to cook supper.
Hardly had we finished the meal and washed the dishes, when a skiff
ground against the _Coal Tar Maggie’s_ side, and heavy feet trampled on
deck.  Then the Centipede’s brutal face appeared in the companionway, and
he descended into the cabin, followed by the Porpoise.  Before they could
seat themselves on a bunk, another skiff came alongside, and another, and
another, till the whole fleet was represented by the gathering in the
cabin.
“Where’d you swipe the old tub?” asked a squat and hairy man, with cruel
eyes and Mexican features.
