What if it were there, indeed, and had brought him a complete
explanation of her telegram? The revulsion of feeling produced by this
thought made him look at the girl with sudden impatience. She struck him
as positively stupid, and he wondered how he could have wasted half his
day with her, when all the while Mrs. Leath's letter might be lying on
his table. At that moment, if he could have chosen, he would have left
his companion on the spot; but he had her on his hands, and must accept
the consequences.
Some odd intuition seemed to make her conscious of his change of mood,
for she sprang from her seat, crumpling the letter in her hand.
"I'm too stupid; but I won't keep you any longer. I'll go back to the
hotel and write there."
Her colour deepened, and for the first time, as their eyes met, he
noticed a faint embarrassment in hers. Could it be that his nearness
was, after all, the cause of her confusion? The thought turned his vague
impatience with her into a definite resentment toward himself. There was
really no excuse for his having blundered into such an adventure. Why
had he not shipped the girl off to Joigny by the evening train, instead
of urging her to delay, and using Cerdine as a pretext? Paris was full
of people he knew, and his annoyance was increased by the thought that
some friend of Mrs. Leath's might see him at the play, and report his
presence there with a suspiciously good-looking companion. The idea was
distinctly disagreeable: he did not want the woman he adored to think he
could forget her for a moment. And by this time he had fully persuaded
himself that a letter from her was awaiting him, and had even gone so
far as to imagine that its contents might annul the writer's telegraphed
injunction, and call him to her side at once...
V
At the porter's desk a brief "Pas de lettres" fell destructively on the
fabric of these hopes. Mrs. Leath had not written--she had not taken the
trouble to explain her telegram. Darrow turned away with a sharp pang
of humiliation. Her frugal silence mocked his prodigality of hopes and
fears. He had put his question to the porter once before, on returning
to the hotel after luncheon; and now, coming back again in the late
afternoon, he was met by the same denial. The second post was in, and
had brought him nothing.
A glance at his watch showed that he had barely time to dress before
taking Miss Viner out to dine; but as he turned to the lift a new
thought struck him, and hurrying back into the hall he dashed off
another telegram to his servant: "Have you forwarded any letter with
French postmark today? Telegraph answer Terminus."
Some kind of reply would be certain to reach him on his return from the
theatre, and he would then know definitely whether Mrs. Leath meant
to write or not. He hastened up to his room and dressed with a lighter
heart.
