"A Rose," he answered, laughing. Then, as if the danger was over, he
said, "How will you account to the major for the message you sent him?"
"Easily, by fabricating some interesting perplexity in which I want sage
counsel. He will be flattered, and by seeming to take him into my
confidence, I can hoodwink the excellent man to my heart's content, for
he annoys me by his odd way of mounting guard over me at all times. Now
take me in to dinner, and be your former delightful self."
"That is impossible," he said, yet proved that it was not.
Chapter IV
FEEDING THE PEACOCKS
It was indeed a charming sight, the twelve stately birds perched on the
broad stone balustrade, or prancing slowly along the terrace, with the
sun gleaming on their green and golden necks and the glories of their
gorgeous plumes, widespread, or sweeping like rich trains behind them.
In pretty contrast to the splendid creatures was their young mistress,
in her simple morning dress and fur-trimmed hood and mantle, as she
stood feeding the tame pets from her hand, calling their fanciful names,
laughing at their pranks, and heartily enjoying the winter sunshine, the
fresh wind, and the girlish pastime. As Treherne slowly approached, he
watched her with lover's eyes, and found her very sweet and blithe, and
dearer in his sight than ever. She had shunned him carefully all the day
before, had parted at night with a hasty handshake, and had not come as
usual to bid him good-morning in the library. He had taken no notice of
the change as yet, but now, remembering his promise to his aunt, he
resolved to let the girl know that he fully understood the relation
which henceforth was to exist between them.
"Good-morning, cousin. Shall I drive you away, if I take a turn or two
here?" he said, in a cheerful tone, but with a half-reproachful glance.
She looked at him an instant, then went to him with extended hand and
cheeks rosier than before, while her frank eyes filled, and her voice
had a traitorous tremor in it, as she said, impetuously: "I _will_ be
myself for a moment, in spite of everything. Maurice, don't think me
unkind, don't reproach me, or ask my leave to come where I am. There is
a reason for the change you see in me; it's not caprice, it is
obedience."
"My dear girl, I know it. I meant to speak of it, and show you that I
understand. Annon is a good fellow, as worthy of you as any man can be,
and I wish you all the happiness you deserve."
"Do you?" And her eyes searched his face keenly.
"Yes; do you doubt it?" And so well did he conceal his love, that
neither face, voice, nor manner betrayed a hint of it.
Her eyes fell, a cloud passed over her clear countenance, and she
withdrew her hand, as if to caress the hungry bird that gently pecked at
the basket she held. As if to change the conversation, she said
playfully, "Poor Argus, you have lost your fine feathers, and so all
desert you, except kind little Juno, who never forgets her friends.
There, take it all, and share between you."
