"Come, Dave, Come.  I have for both.  The way is soft."  She looked about
her at the bare furnishings of the cabin.  "I have for both.  The world
is at our feet, and all joy is ours.  Come! come!"
She was in his arms, trembling, and he held her tightly.  He rose to his
feet . . . But the snarling of hungry dogs, and the shrill cries of
Winapie bringing about peace between the combatants, came muffled to his
ear through the heavy logs.  And another scene flashed before him.  A
struggle in the forest,--a bald-face grizzly, broken-legged, terrible;
the snarling of the dogs and the shrill cries of Winapie as she urged
them to the attack; himself in the midst of the crush, breathless,
panting, striving to hold off red death; broken-backed, entrail-ripped
dogs howling in impotent anguish and desecrating the snow; the virgin
white running scarlet with the blood of man and beast; the bear,
ferocious, irresistible, crunching, crunching down to the core of his
life; and Winapie, at the last, in the thick of the frightful muddle,
hair flying, eyes flashing, fury incarnate, passing the long hunting
knife again and again--Sweat started to his forehead.  He shook off the
clinging woman and staggered back to the wall.  And she, knowing that the
moment had come, but unable to divine what was passing within him, felt
all she had gained slipping away.
"Dave!  Dave!" she cried.  "I will not give you up!  I will not give you
up!  If you do not wish to come, we will stay.  I will stay with you.  The
world is less to me than are you.  I will be a Northland wife to you.  I
will cook your food, feed your dogs, break trail for you, lift a paddle
with you.  I can do it.  Believe me, I am strong."
Nor did he doubt it, looking upon her and holding her off from him; but
his face had grown stern and gray, and the warmth had died out of his
eyes.
"I will pay off Pierre and the boatmen, and let them go.  And I will stay
with you, priest or no priest, minister or no minister; go with you, now,
anywhere!  Dave!  Dave!  Listen to me!  You say I did you wrong in the
past--and I did--let me make up for it, let me atone.  If I did not
rightly measure love before, let me show that I can now."
She sank to the floor and threw her arms about his knees, sobbing.  "And
you _do_ care for me.  You _do_ care for me.  Think!  The long years I
have waited, suffered!  You can never know!"  He stooped and raised her
to her feet.
"Listen," he commanded, opening the door and lifting her bodily outside.
"It cannot be.  We are not alone to be considered.  You must go.  I wish
you a safe journey.  You will find it tougher work when you get up by the
Sixty Mile, but you have the best boatmen in the world, and will get
through all right.  Will you say good-by?"
