"It's rather hard to satisfy young women with marriage these days," the
hog-manager demurred.
Dick Forrest laughed incredulously.
"I don't know about that," he said. "There's your wife for an instance.
She with her sheepskin--classical scholar at that--well, what has she
done with it?... Two boys and three girls, I believe? As I remember
your telling me, she was engaged to you the whole last half of her
senior year."
"True, but--" Crellin insisted, with an eye-twinkle of appreciation of
the point, "that was fifteen years ago, as well as a love-match. We
just couldn't help it. That far, I agree. She had planned unheard-of
achievements, while I saw nothing else than the deanship of the College
of Agriculture. We just couldn't help it. But that was fifteen years
ago, and fifteen years have made all the difference in the world in the
ambitions and ideals of our young women."
"Don't you believe it for a moment. I tell you, Mr. Crellin, it's a
statistic. All contrary things are transient. Ever woman remains
Avoman, everlasting, eternal. Not until our girl-children cease from
playing with dolls and from looking at their own enticingness in
mirrors, will woman ever be otherwise than what she has always been:
first, the mother, second, the mate of man. It is a statistic. I've
been looking up the girls who graduate from the State Normal. You will
notice that those who marry by the way before graduation are excluded.
Nevertheless, the average length of time the graduates actually teach
school is little more than two years. And when you consider that a lot
of them, through ill looks and ill luck, are foredoomed old maids and
are foredoomed to teach all their lives, you can see how they cut down
the period of teaching of the marriageable ones."
"A woman, even a girl-woman, will have her way where mere men are
concerned," Crellin muttered, unable to dispute his employer's figures
but resolved to look them up.
"And your girl-woman will go to Stanford," Forrest laughed, as he
prepared to lift his mare into a gallop, "and you and I and all men, to
the end of time, will see to it that they do have their way."
Crellin smiled to himself as his employer diminished down the road; for
Crellin knew his Kipling, and the thought that caused the smile was:
"But where's the kid of your own, Mr. Forrest?" He decided to repeat it
to Mrs. Crellin over the breakfast coffee.
Once again Dick Forrest delayed ere he gained the Big House. The man he
stopped he addressed as Mendenhall, who was his horse-manager as well
as pasture expert, and who was reputed to know, not only every blade of
grass on the ranch, but the length of every blade of grass and its age
from seed-germination as well.
At signal from Forrest, Mendenhall drew up the two colts he was driving
in a double breaking-cart. What had caused Forrest to signal was a
glance he had caught, across the northern edge of the valley, of great,
smooth-hill ranges miles beyond, touched by the sun and deeply green
where they projected into the vast flat of the Sacramento Valley.
