Five feet, ten inches in height, weighing a clean-muscled one hundred
and eighty pounds, Dick Forrest was anything but insignificant for a
forty years' old man. The eyes were gray, large, over-arched by bone of
brow, and lashes and brows were dark. The hair, above an ordinary
forehead, was light brown to chestnut. Under the forehead, the cheeks
showed high-boned, with underneath the slight hollows that necessarily
accompany such formation. The jaws were strong without massiveness, the
nose, large-nostriled, was straight enough and prominent enough without
being too straight or prominent, the chin square without harshness and
uncleft, and the mouth girlish and sweet to a degree that did not hide
the firmness to which the lips could set on due provocation. The skin
was smooth and well-tanned, although, midway between eyebrows and hair,
the tan of forehead faded in advertisement of the rim of the Baden
Powell interposed between him and the sun.
Laughter lurked in the mouth corners and eye-corners, and there were
cheek lines about the mouth that would seem to have been formed by
laughter. Equally strong, however, every line of the face that meant
blended things carried a notice of surety. Dick Forrest was sure--sure,
when his hand reached out for any object on his desk, that the hand
would straightly attain the object without a fumble or a miss of a
fraction of an inch; sure, when his brain leaped the high places of the
hog cholera text, that it was not missing a point; sure, from his
balanced body in the revolving desk-chair to the balanced back-head of
him; sure, in heart and brain, of life and work, of all he possessed,
and of himself.
He had reason to be sure. Body, brain, and career were long-proven
sure. A rich man's son, he had not played ducks and drakes with his
father's money. City born and reared, he had gone back to the land and
made such a success as to put his name on the lips of breeders wherever
breeders met and talked. He was the owner, without encumbrance, of two
hundred and fifty thousand acres of land--land that varied in value
from a thousand dollars an acre to a hundred dollars, that varied from
a hundred dollars to ten cents an acre, and that, in stretches, was not
worth a penny an acre. The improvements on that quarter of a million
acres, from drain-tiled meadows to dredge-drained tule swamps, from
good roads to developed water-rights, from farm buildings to the Big
House itself, constituted a sum gaspingly ungraspable to the
country-side.
Everything was large-scale but modern to the last tick of the clock.
His managers lived, rent-free, with salaries commensurate to ability,
in five--and ten-thousand-dollar houses--but they were the cream of
specialists skimmed from the continent from the Atlantic to the
Pacific. When he ordered gasoline-tractors for the cultivation of the
flat lands, he ordered a round score. When he dammed water in his
mountains he dammed it by the hundreds of millions of gallons. When he
ditched his tule-swamps, instead of contracting the excavation, he
bought the huge dredgers outright, and, when there was slack work on
his own marshes, he contracted for the draining of the marshes of
neighboring big farmers, land companies, and corporations for a hundred
miles up and down the Sacramento River.
