The King wipes off the perfumes from his visage with his hand. He eats
from the sacred vessels, and then breaks them, and he enumerates,
mentally, his fleets, his armies, his peoples. Presently, through a
whim, he will burn his palace, along with his guests. He calculates on
rebuilding the Tower of Babel, and dethroning God.
Antony reads, at a distance, on his forehead, all his thoughts. They
take possession of himself--and he becomes Nebuchadnezzar.
Immediately, he is satiated with conquests and exterminations; and a
longing seizes him to plunge into every kind of vileness. Moreover, the
degradation wherewith men are terrified is an outrage done to their
souls, a means still more of stupefying them; and, as nothing is lower
than a brute beast, Antony falls upon four paws on the table, and
bellows like a bull.
He feels a pain in his hand--a pebble, as it happened, has hurt him--and
he again finds himself in his cell.
The rocky enclosure is empty. The stars are shining. All is silence.
"Once more I have been deceived. Why these things? They arise from the
revolts of the flesh! Ah! miserable man that I am!"
He dashes into his cell, takes out of it a bundle of cords, with iron
nails at the ends of them, strips himself to the waist, and raising his
eyes towards Heaven:
"Accept my penance, O my God! Do not despise it on account of its
insufficiency. Make it sharp, prolonged, excessive. It is time! To
work!"
He proceeds to lash himself vigorously.
"Ah! no! no! No pity!"
He begins again.
"Oh! Oh! Oh! Each stroke tears my skin, cuts my limbs. This smarts
horribly! Ah! it is not so terrible! One gets used to it. It seems to me
even ..."
Antony stops.
"Come on, then, coward! Come on, then! Good! good! On the arms, on the
back, on the breast, against the belly, everywhere! Hiss, thongs! bite
me! tear me! I would like the drops of my blood to gush forth to the
stars, to break my back, to strip my nerves bare! Pincers! wooden
horses! molten lead! The martyrs bore more than that! Is that not so,
Ammonaria?"
The shadows of the Devil's horns reappear.
"I might have been fastened to the pillar next to yours, face to face
with you, under your very eyes, responding to your shrieks with my
sighs, and our griefs would blend into one, and our souls would
commingle."
He flogs himself furiously.
"Hold! hold! for your sake! once more! ... But this is a mere tickling
that passes through my frame. What torture! What delight! Those are like
kisses. My marrow is melting! I am dying!"
And in front of him he sees three cavaliers, mounted on wild asses, clad
in green garments, holding lilies in their hands, and all resembling one
another in figure.
Antony turns back, and sees three other cavaliers of the same kind,
mounted on similar wild asses, in the same attitude.
He draws back. Then the wild asses, all at the same time, step forward a
pace or two, and rub their snouts against him, trying to bite his
garment. Voices exclaim, "This way! this way! Here is the place!" And
banners appear between the clefts of the mountain, with camels' heads in
halters of red silk, mules laden with baggage, and women covered with
yellow veils, mounted astride on piebald horses.
