Surely none can express the inconceivable joy I felt at this happy
deliverance! who from being a late miserable and forlorn creature was
not only relieved, but in favour with the master of the ship, to whom,
in return for my deliverance, I offered all I had. "God forbid," said
he, "that I should take any thing from you. Every thing shall be
delivered to you when you come to Brazil. If I have saved your life it
is no more than I should expect to receive myself from any other, when
in the same circumstances I should happen to meet the like deliverance.
And should I take from you what you have, and leave you at Brazil, why,
this would be only taking away a life I had given. My charity teaches me
better. Those effects you have will support you there, and provide you a
passage home again." And, indeed, he acted with the strictest justice in
what he did, taking my things into his possession, and giving me an
exact inventory, even to my earthen jars. He bought my boat of me for
the ship's use, giving me a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable at
Brazil; and if any body offered more, he would make it up. He also gave
me 60 pieces for my boy Xury. It way with great reluctance I was
prevailed upon to sell the child's liberty, who had served me so
faithfully; but the boy was willing himself; and it was agreed, that
after ten years he should be made free, upon his renouncing
Mahometanism, and embracing Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we arrived in the Bay de Todos
los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in twenty-two days after. And here I
cannot forget the generous treatment of the captain. He would take
nothing for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin,
and thirty for the lion's. Every thing he caused to be delivered, and
what I would sell he bought. In short I made about 220 pieces of my
cargo; and with this stock I entered once more, as I may say into the
scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived with him till such time
as I was informed of the manner of their planting and making sugar; and
seeing how well they lived, and how suddenly they grew rich, I was
filled with a desire to settle among them, and resolved to get my money
remitted to me, and to purchase a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an honest and kind
neighbour, born at Lisbon, of English parents, whose plantation joining
to mine, we improved it very amicably together. Both our stocks were
low, and for two years we planted only for food: but the third year we
planted some tobacco, and each of us dressed a large piece of ground the
ensuing year for planting canes. But now I found how much I wanted
assistance, and repented the loss of my dear boy Xury.
