"Brothers," Koolau began.
But one of the mowing, apelike travesties emitted a wild shriek of
madness, and Koolau waited while the shrill cachination was tossed back
and forth among the rocky walls and echoed distantly through the
pulseless night.
"Brothers, is it not strange?  Ours was the land, and behold, the land is
not ours.  What did these preachers of the word of God and the word of
Rum give us for the land?  Have you received one dollar, as much as one
dollar, any one of you, for the land?  Yet it is theirs, and in return
they tell us we can go to work on the land, their land, and that what we
produce by our toil shall be theirs.  Yet in the old days we did not have
to work.  Also, when we are sick, they take away our freedom."
"Who brought the sickness, Koolau?" demanded Kiloliana, a lean and wiry
man with a face so like a laughing faun's that one might expect to see
the cloven hoofs under him.  They were cloven, it was true, but the
cleavages were great ulcers and livid putrefactions.  Yet this was
Kiloliana, the most daring climber of them all, the man who knew every
goat-trail and who had led Koolau and his wretched followers into the
recesses of Kalalau.
"Ay, well questioned," Koolau answered.  "Because we would not work the
miles of sugar-cane where once our horses pastured, they brought the
Chinese slaves from overseas.  And with them came the Chinese
sickness--that which we suffer from and because of which they would
imprison us on Molokai.  We were born on Kauai.  We have been to the
other islands, some here and some there, to Oahu, to Maui, to Hawaii, to
Honolulu.  Yet always did we come back to Kauai.  Why did we come back?
There must be a reason.  Because we love Kauai.  We were born here.  Here
we have lived.  And here shall we die--unless--unless--there be weak
hearts amongst us.  Such we do not want.  They are fit for Molokai.  And
if there be such, let them not remain.  Tomorrow the soldiers land on the
shore.  Let the weak hearts go down to them.  They will be sent swiftly
to Molokai.  As for us, we shall stay and fight.  But know that we will
not die.  We have rifles.  You know the narrow trails where men must
creep, one by one.  I, alone, Koolau, who was once a cowboy on Niihau,
can hold the trail against a thousand men.  Here is Kapalei, who was once
a judge over men and a man with honour, but who is now a hunted rat, like
you and me.  Hear him.  He is wise."
Kapalei arose.  Once he had been a judge.  He had gone to college at
Punahou.  He had sat at meat with lords and chiefs and the high
representatives of alien powers who protected the interests of traders
and missionaries.  Such had been Kapalei.  But now, as Koolau had said,
he was a hunted rat, a creature outside the law, sunk so deep in the mire
of human horror that he was above the law as well as beneath it.  His
face was featureless, save for gaping orifices and for the lidless eyes
that burned under hairless brows.
