"Of course, and quite naturally, it would only be fair, you know, you
will have a small allowance for your personal spending," Mr. Davidson
said. "Say, a dollar, or, perhaps, two dollars, a week. As you grow
older this allowance will be increased. And by the time you are
twenty-one, doubtlessly you will be fully qualified--with advice, of
course--to handle your own affairs."
"And until I am twenty-one my twenty million wouldn't buy me a hundred
dollars to do as I please with?" Dick queried very subduedly.
Mr. Davidson started to corroborate in soothing phrases, but was waved
to silence by Dick, who continued:
"As I understand it, whatever money I handle will be by agreement
between the four of us?"
The Board of Guardians nodded.
"That is, whatever we agree, goes?"
Again the Board of Guardians nodded.
"Well, I'd like to have a hundred right now," Dick announced.
"What for?" Mr. Crockett demanded.
"I don't mind telling you," was the lad's steady answer. "To go
traveling."
"You'll go to bed at eight:thirty this evening," Mr. Crockett retorted.
"And you don't get any hundred. The lady we spoke to you about will be
here before six. She is to have, as we explained, daily and hourly
charge of you. At six-thirty, as usual, you will dine, and she will
dine with you and see you to bed. As we told you, she will have to
serve the place of a mother to you--see that your ears are clean, your
neck washed--"
"And that I get my Saturday night bath," Dick amplified meekly for him.
"Precisely."
"How much are you--am I--paying the lady for her services?" Dick
questioned in the disconcerting, tangential way that was already
habitual to him, as his school companions and teachers had learned to
their cost.
Mr. Crockett for the first time cleared his throat for pause.
"I'm paying her, ain't I?" Dick prodded. "Out of the twenty million,
you know."
"The spit of his father," said Mr. Slocum in an aside.
"Mrs. Summerstone, the lady as you elect to call her, receives one
hundred and fifty a month, eighteen hundred a year in round sum," said
Mr. Crockett.
"It's a waste of perfectly good money," Dick sighed. "And board and
lodging thrown in!"
He stood up--not the born aristocrat of the generations, but the reared
aristocrat of thirteen years in the Nob Hill palace. He stood up with
such a manner that his Board of Guardians left their leather chairs to
stand up with him. But he stood up as no Lord Fauntleroy ever stood up;
for he was a mixer. He had knowledge that human life was many-faced and
many-placed. Not for nothing had he been spelled down by Mona
Sanguinetti. Not for nothing had he fought Tim Hagan to a standstill
and, co-equal, ruled the schoolyard roost with him.
He was birthed of the wild gold-adventure of Forty-nine. He was a
reared aristocrat and a grammar-school-trained democrat. He knew, in
his precocious immature way, the differentiations between caste and
mass; and, behind it all, he was possessed of a will of his own and of
a quiet surety of self that was incomprehensible to the three elderly
gentlemen who had been given charge of his and his destiny and who had
pledged themselves to increase his twenty millions and make a man of
him in their own composite image.
