Mr. Jasper has closed his eyes as the auctioneer has deepened his voice.
He now abruptly opens them, and says, in unison with the deepened voice
'Ah!'--rather as if stopping himself on the extreme verge of
adding--'men!'
'I have been since,' says Mr. Sapsea, with his legs stretched out, and
solemnly enjoying himself with the wine and the fire, 'what you behold
me; I have been since a solitary mourner; I have been since, as I say,
wasting my evening conversation on the desert air.  I will not say that I
have reproached myself; but there have been times when I have asked
myself the question: What if her husband had been nearer on a level with
her?  If she had not had to look up quite so high, what might the
stimulating action have been upon the liver?'
Mr. Jasper says, with an appearance of having fallen into dreadfully low
spirits, that he 'supposes it was to be.'
'We can only suppose so, sir,' Mr. Sapsea coincides.  'As I say, Man
proposes, Heaven disposes.  It may or may not be putting the same thought
in another form; but that is the way I put it.'
Mr. Jasper murmurs assent.
'And now, Mr. Jasper,' resumes the auctioneer, producing his scrap of
manuscript, 'Mrs. Sapsea's monument having had full time to settle and
dry, let me take your opinion, as a man of taste, on the inscription I
have (as I before remarked, not without some little fever of the brow)
drawn out for it.  Take it in your own hand.  The setting out of the
lines requires to be followed with the eye, as well as the contents with
the mind.'
Mr. Jasper complying, sees and reads as follows:
                                 ETHELINDA,
                             Reverential Wife of
                             MR. THOMAS SAPSEA,
                   AUCTIONEER, VALUER, ESTATE AGENT, &c.,
                                OF THIS CITY.
                        Whose Knowledge of the World,
                         Though somewhat extensive,
                      Never brought him acquainted with
                                  A SPIRIT
                               More capable of
                             LOOKING UP TO HIM.
                               STRANGER, PAUSE
                        And ask thyself the Question,
                           CANST THOU DO LIKEWISE?
                                   If Not,
                            WITH A BLUSH RETIRE.
Mr. Sapsea having risen and stationed himself with his back to the fire,
for the purpose of observing the effect of these lines on the countenance
of a man of taste, consequently has his face towards the door, when his
serving-maid, again appearing, announces, 'Durdles is come, sir!'  He
promptly draws forth and fills the third wineglass, as being now claimed,
and replies, 'Show Durdles in.'
'Admirable!' quoth Mr. Jasper, handing back the paper.
'You approve, sir?'
'Impossible not to approve.  Striking, characteristic, and complete.'
The auctioneer inclines his head, as one accepting his due and giving a
receipt; and invites the entering Durdles to take off that glass of wine
(handing the same), for it will warm him.
Durdles is a stonemason; chiefly in the gravestone, tomb, and monument
way, and wholly of their colour from head to foot.  No man is better
known in Cloisterham.  He is the chartered libertine of the place.  Fame
trumpets him a wonderful workman--which, for aught that anybody knows, he
may be (as he never works); and a wonderful sot--which everybody knows he
is.  With the Cathedral crypt he is better acquainted than any living
authority; it may even be than any dead one.  It is said that the
intimacy of this acquaintance began in his habitually resorting to that
secret place, to lock-out the Cloisterham boy-populace, and sleep off
fumes of liquor: he having ready access to the Cathedral, as contractor
for rough repairs.  Be this as it may, he does know much about it, and,
in the demolition of impedimental fragments of wall, buttress, and
pavement, has seen strange sights.  He often speaks of himself in the
third person; perhaps, being a little misty as to his own identity, when
he narrates; perhaps impartially adopting the Cloisterham nomenclature in
reference to a character of acknowledged distinction.  Thus he will say,
touching his strange sights: 'Durdles come upon the old chap,' in
reference to a buried magnate of ancient time and high degree, 'by
striking right into the coffin with his pick.  The old chap gave Durdles
a look with his open eyes, as much as to say, "Is your name Durdles?
Why, my man, I've been waiting for you a devil of a time!"  And then he
turned to powder.'  With a two-foot rule always in his pocket, and a
mason's hammer all but always in his hand, Durdles goes continually
sounding and tapping all about and about the Cathedral; and whenever he
says to Tope: 'Tope, here's another old 'un in here!'  Tope announces it
to the Dean as an established discovery.
