“The hussy!” breathed Mrs. Jones.
But Mr. Jones went on, making believe that he was unaware of the
interruption.
“‘Hell of a way to stop a locomotive,’ I complained at Seth, as I climbed
down on to the right of way.  I walked past our engine and up to the
girl, and what do you think?  Her eyes were shut tight.  She was
trembling that violent that you would see it by the moonlight.  And she
was barefoot, too.
“‘What’s the row?’ I said, none too gentle.  She gave a start, seemed to
come out of her trance, and opened her eyes.  Say!  They were big and
black and beautiful.  Believe me, she was some looker—”
“The hussy!”  At which hiss the two mud-hens veered away a few feet.  But
Jones was getting himself in hand, and didn’t even blink.
“‘What are you stopping this locomotive for?’ I demanded in Spanish.
Nary an answer.  She stared at me, then at the snorting engine and then
burst into tears, which you’ll admit is uncommon behaviour for an Indian
woman.
“‘If you try to get rides that way,’ I slung at her in Spiggoty Spanish
(which they tell me is some different from regular Spanish), ‘you’ll be
taking one smeared all over our cowcatcher and headlight, and it’ll be up
to my fireman to scrape you off.’
“My Spiggoty Spanish wasn’t much to brag on, but I could see she
understood, though she only shook her head and wouldn’t speak.  But great
Moses, she was some looker—”
I glanced apprehensively at Mrs. Jones, who must have caught me out of
the tail of her eye, for she muttered: “If she hadn’t been do you think
he’d a-taken her into his house to live?”
“Now hold on, Sarah,” he protested.  “That ain’t fair.  Besides, I’m
telling this.—Next thing, Seth yells at me, ‘Goin’ to stay here all
night?’
“‘Come on,’ I said to the girl, ‘and climb on board.  But next time you
want a ride don’t flag a locomotive between stations.’  She followed
along; but when I got to the step and turned to give her a lift-up, she
wasn’t there.  I went forward again.  Not a sign of her.  Above and below
was sheer cliff, and the track stretched ahead a hundred yards clear and
empty.  And then I spotted her, crouched down right against the
cowcatcher, that close I’d almost stepped on her.  If we’d started up,
we’d have run over her in a second.  It was all so nonsensical, I never
could make out her actions.  Maybe she was trying to suicide.  I grabbed
her by the wrist and jerked her none too gentle to her feet.  And she
came along all right.  Women do know when a man means business.”
I glanced from this Goliath to his little, bird-eyed spouse, and wondered
if he had ever tried to mean business with her.
“Seth kicked at first, but I boosted her into the cab and made her sit up
beside me—”
