At this the General seemed extremely surprised, and asked me whence I
had procured it; whereupon I replied that, though I had begun only with
100 gulden, six or seven rounds had increased my capital to 5000 or
6000 gulden, and that subsequently I had lost the whole in two rounds.
All this, of course, was plausible enough. During my recital I glanced
at Polina, but nothing was to be discerned on her face. However, she
had allowed me to fire up without correcting me, and from that I
concluded that it was my cue to fire up, and to conceal the fact that I
had been playing on her behalf. "At all events," I thought to myself,
"she, in her turn, has promised to give me an explanation to-night, and
to reveal to me something or another."
Although the General appeared to be taking stock of me, he said
nothing. Yet I could see uneasiness and annoyance in his face. Perhaps
his straitened circumstances made it hard for him to have to hear of
piles of gold passing through the hands of an irresponsible fool like
myself within the space of a quarter of an hour. Now, I have an idea
that, last night, he and the Frenchman had a sharp encounter with one
another. At all events they closeted themselves together, and then had
a long and vehement discussion; after which the Frenchman departed in
what appeared to be a passion, but returned, early this morning, to
renew the combat. On hearing of my losses, however, he only remarked
with a sharp, and even a malicious, air that "a man ought to go more
carefully." Next, for some reason or another, he added that, "though a
great many Russians go in for gambling, they are no good at the game."
"I think that roulette was devised specially for Russians," I retorted;
and when the Frenchman smiled contemptuously at my reply I further
remarked that I was sure I was right; also that, speaking of Russians
in the capacity of gamblers, I had far more blame for them than
praise--of that he could be quite sure.
"Upon what do you base your opinion?" he inquired.
"Upon the fact that to the virtues and merits of the civilised
Westerner there has become historically added--though this is not his
chief point--a capacity for acquiring capital; whereas, not only is the
Russian incapable of acquiring capital, but also he exhausts it
wantonly and of sheer folly. None the less we Russians often need
money; wherefore, we are glad of, and greatly devoted to, a method of
acquisition like roulette--whereby, in a couple of hours, one may grow
rich without doing any work. This method, I repeat, has a great
attraction for us, but since we play in wanton fashion, and without
taking any trouble, we almost invariably lose."
"To a certain extent that is true," assented the Frenchman with a
self-satisfied air.
"Oh no, it is not true," put in the General sternly. "And you," he
added to me, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself for traducing your
own country!"
