Mr. Pickwick paused not an instant until he was snug in bed. Sam Weller
lighted a blazing fire in the room and took up his dinner; a bowl of
punch was carried up afterwards, and a grand carouse held in honour of
his safety. Old Wardle would not hear of his rising, so they made the
bed the chair, and Mr. Pickwick presided. A second and a third bowl
were ordered in; and when Mr. Pickwick awoke next morning, there was
not a symptom of rheumatism about him: which proves, as Mr. Bob Sawyer
very justly observed, that there is nothing like hot punch in such
cases: and that if ever hot punch did fail to act as a preventive, it
was merely because the patient fell into the vulgar error of not taking
enough of it.
The jovial party broke up next morning. Breakings up are capital things
in our school days, but in after life they are painful enough. Death,
self-interest, and fortune's changes, are every day breaking up many a
happy group, and scattering them far and wide; and the boys and girls
never come back again. We do not mean to say that it was exactly the
case in this particular instance; all we wish to inform the reader is,
that the different members of the party dispersed to their several
homes; that Mr. Pickwick and his friends once more took their seats on
the top of the Muggleton coach; and that Arabella Allen repaired to
her place of destination, wherever it might have been--we dare say Mr.
Winkle knew, but we confess we don't--under the care and guardianship
of her brother Benjamin, and his most intimate friend, Mr. Bob Sawyer.
Before they separated, however, that gentleman and Mr. Benjamin Allen
drew Mr. Pickwick aside with an air of some mystery: and Mr. Bob
Sawyer, thrusting his forefinger between two of Mr. Pickwick's ribs,
and thereby displaying his native drollery, and his knowledge of the
anatomy of the human frame, at one and the same time, inquired:
"I say, old boy, where do you hang out?"
Mr. Pickwick replied that he was at present suspended at the George and
Vulture.
"I wish you'd come and see me," said Bob Sawyer.
"Nothing would give me greater pleasure," replied Mr. Pickwick.
"There's my lodgings," said Mr. Bob Sawyer, producing a card. "Lant
Street, Borough; it's near Guy's, and handy for me, you know. Little
distance after you've passed St. George's Church--turns out of the High
Street on the right-hand side the way."
"I shall find it," said Mr. Pickwick.
"Come on Thursday fortnight, and bring the other chaps with you," said
Mr. Bob Sawyer. "I'm going to have a few medical fellows that night."
Mr. Pickwick expressed the pleasure it would afford him to meet the
medical fellows; and after Mr. Bob Sawyer had informed him that he
meant to be very cosy, and that his friend Ben was to be one of the
party, they shook hands and separated.
