"Pebbles!" he concluded, viciously dropping another bread pellet upon
the heap. "The roads of England are mended with pebbles! 'With the first
heavy rainfall,' I've told 'em, 'your road will be a swamp.' Again and
again my words have proved true. But d'you suppose they listen to me
when I tell 'em so, when I point out the consequences, the consequences
to the public purse, when I recommend 'em to read Coryphaeus? No, Mrs.
Ambrose, you will form no just opinion of the stupidity of mankind until
you have sat upon a Borough Council!" The little man fixed her with a
glance of ferocious energy.
"I have had servants," said Mrs. Ambrose, concentrating her gaze. "At
this moment I have a nurse. She's a good woman as they go, but she's
determined to make my children pray. So far, owing to great care on
my part, they think of God as a kind of walrus; but now that my back's
turned--Ridley," she demanded, swinging round upon her husband, "what
shall we do if we find them saying the Lord's Prayer when we get home
again?"
Ridley made the sound which is represented by "Tush." But Willoughby,
whose discomfort as he listened was manifested by a slight movement
rocking of his body, said awkwardly, "Oh, surely, Helen, a little
religion hurts nobody."
"I would rather my children told lies," she replied, and while
Willoughby was reflecting that his sister-in-law was even more eccentric
than he remembered, pushed her chair back and swept upstairs. In a
second they heard her calling back, "Oh, look! We're out at sea!"
They followed her on to the deck. All the smoke and the houses had
disappeared, and the ship was out in a wide space of sea very fresh and
clear though pale in the early light. They had left London sitting on
its mud. A very thin line of shadow tapered on the horizon, scarcely
thick enough to stand the burden of Paris, which nevertheless rested
upon it. They were free of roads, free of mankind, and the same
exhilaration at their freedom ran through them all. The ship was making
her way steadily through small waves which slapped her and then fizzled
like effervescing water, leaving a little border of bubbles and foam on
either side. The colourless October sky above was thinly clouded as if
by the trail of wood-fire smoke, and the air was wonderfully salt and
brisk. Indeed it was too cold to stand still. Mrs. Ambrose drew her arm
within her husband's, and as they moved off it could be seen from the
way in which her sloping cheek turned up to his that she had something
private to communicate. They went a few paces and Rachel saw them kiss.
Down she looked into the depth of the sea. While it was slightly
disturbed on the surface by the passage of the _Euphrosyne_, beneath it
was green and dim, and it grew dimmer and dimmer until the sand at the
bottom was only a pale blur. One could scarcely see the black ribs of
wrecked ships, or the spiral towers made by the burrowings of great
eels, or the smooth green-sided monsters who came by flickering this way
and that.
