"And where is this valley?" I asked
He waved his hand in the direction of the north-east, and said:
"Your tobacco is very good.  I carry a fair share of it in my
pouch, but I shall carry the recollection of it until I die.  In
token of my appreciation, and in return for the moccasins on your
own feet, I will present to you these muclucs.  They commemorate
Klooch and the seven blind little beggars.  They are also souvenirs
of an unparalleled event in history, namely, the destruction of the
oldest breed of animal on earth, and the youngest.  And their chief
virtue lies in that they will never wear out."
Having effected the exchange, he knocked the ashes from his pipe,
gripped my hand good-night, and wandered off through the snow.
Concerning this tale, for which I have already disclaimed
responsibility, I would recommend those of little faith to make a
visit to the Smithsonian Institute.  If they bring the requisite
credentials and do not come in vacation time, they will undoubtedly
gain an audience with Professor Dolvidson.  The muclucs are in his
possession, and he will verify, not the manner in which they were
obtained, but the material of which they are composed.  When he
states that they are made from the skin of the mammoth, the
scientific world accepts his verdict.  What more would you have?
A HYPERBOREAN BREW
[The story of a scheming white man among the strange people who
live on the rim of the Arctic sea]
Thomas Stevens's veracity may have been indeterminate as X, and his
imagination the imagination of ordinary men increased to the nth
power, but this, at least, must be said:  never did he deliver
himself of word nor deed that could be branded as a lie outright. .
. He may have played with probability, and verged on the extremest
edge of possibility, but in his tales the machinery never creaked.
That he knew the Northland like a book, not a soul can deny.  That
he was a great traveller, and had set foot on countless unknown
trails, many evidences affirm.  Outside of my own personal
knowledge, I knew men that had met him everywhere, but principally
on the confines of Nowhere.  There was Johnson, the ex-Hudson Bay
Company factor, who had housed him in a Labrador factory until his
dogs rested up a bit, and he was able to strike out again.  There
was McMahon, agent for the Alaska Commercial Company, who had run
across him in Dutch Harbour, and later on, among the outlying
islands of the Aleutian group.  It was indisputable that he had
guided one of the earlier United States surveys, and history states
positively that in a similar capacity he served the Western Union
when it attempted to put through its trans-Alaskan and Siberian
telegraph to Europe.  Further, there was Joe Lamson, the whaling
captain, who, when ice-bound off the mouth of the Mackenzie, had
had him come aboard after tobacco.  This last touch proves Thomas
Stevens's identity conclusively.  His quest for tobacco was
perennial and untiring.  Ere we became fairly acquainted, I learned
to greet him with one hand, and pass the pouch with the other.  But
the night I met him in John O'Brien's Dawson saloon, his head was
wreathed in a nimbus of fifty-cent cigar smoke, and instead of my
pouch he demanded my sack.  We were standing by a faro table, and
forthwith he tossed it upon the "high card."  "Fifty," he said, and
the game-keeper nodded.  The "high card" turned, and he handed back
my sack, called for a "tab," and drew me over to the scales, where
the weigher nonchalantly cashed him out fifty dollars in dust.
