To the wharf we drove.  Some forty sad wretches, amid their mats,
blankets, and luggage of various sorts, were squatting on the stringer
piece.  The Noeau had just arrived and was making fast to a lighter that
lay between her and the wharf.  A Mr. McVeigh, the superintendent of the
settlement, was overseeing the embarkation, and to him I was introduced,
also to Dr. Georges, one of the Board of Health physicians whom I had
already met at Kalihi.  The lepers were a woebegone lot.  The faces of
the majority were hideous--too horrible for me to describe.  But here and
there I noticed fairly good-looking persons, with no apparent signs of
the fell disease upon them.  One, I noticed, a little white girl, not
more than twelve, with blue eyes and golden hair.  One cheek, however,
showed the leprous bloat.  On my remarking on the sadness of her alien
situation among the brown-skinned afflicted ones, Doctor Georges
replied:--
"Oh, I don't know.  It's a happy day in her life.  She comes from Kauai.
Her father is a brute.  And now that she has developed the disease she is
going to join her mother at the settlement.  Her mother was sent down
three years ago--a very bad case."
"You can't always tell from appearances," Mr. McVeigh explained.  "That
man there, that big chap, who looks the pink of condition, with nothing
the matter with him, I happen to know has a perforating ulcer in his foot
and another in his shoulder-blade.  Then there are others--there, see
that girl's hand, the one who is smoking the cigarette.  See her twisted
fingers.  That's the anaesthetic form.  It attacks the nerves.  You could
cut her fingers off with a dull knife, or rub them off on a
nutmeg-grater, and she would not experience the slightest sensation."
"Yes, but that fine-looking woman, there," I persisted; "surely, surely,
there can't be anything the matter with her.  She is too glorious and
gorgeous altogether."
"A sad case," Mr. McVeigh answered over his shoulder, already turning
away to walk down the wharf with Kersdale.
She was a beautiful woman, and she was pure Polynesian.  From my meagre
knowledge of the race and its types I could not but conclude that she had
descended from old chief stock.  She could not have been more than twenty-
three or four.  Her lines and proportions were magnificent, and she was
just beginning to show the amplitude of the women of her race.
"It was a blow to all of us," Dr. Georges volunteered.  "She gave herself
up voluntarily, too.  No one suspected.  But somehow she had contracted
the disease.  It broke us all up, I assure you.  We've kept it out of the
papers, though.  Nobody but us and her family knows what has become of
her.  In fact, if you were to ask any man in Honolulu, he'd tell you it
was his impression that she was somewhere in Europe.  It was at her
request that we've been so quiet about it.  Poor girl, she has a lot of
pride."
