"Thanks, fair Simorg-anka! You who have brought me to the place where
the lover is concealed! Thanks! thanks! messenger of my heart! He flies
like desire. He travels all over the world. In the evening he returns;
he lies down at the foot of my couch; he tells me what he has seen, the
seas he has flown over, with their fishes and their ships, the great
empty deserts which he has looked down upon from his airy height in the
skies, all the harvests bending in the fields, and the plants that shoot
up on the walls of abandoned cities."
She twists her arms with a languishing air.
"Oh! if you were willing! if you were only willing! ... I have a pavilion
on a promontory, in the midst of an isthmus between two oceans. It is
wainscotted with plates of glass, floored with tortoise-shells, and is
open to the four winds of Heaven. From above, I watch the return of my
fleets and the people who ascend the hill with loads on their shoulders.
We should sleep on down softer than clouds; we should drink cool
draughts out of the rinds of fruit, and we gaze at the sun through a
canopy of emeralds. Come!"
Antony recoils. She draws close to him, and, in a tone of irritation:
"How so? Rich, coquettish, and in love?--is not that enough for you, eh?
But must she be lascivious, gross, with a hoarse voice, a head of hair
like fire, and rebounding flesh? Do you prefer a body cold as a
serpent's skin, or, perchance, great black eyes more sombre than
mysterious caverns? Look at these eyes of mine, then!"
Antony gazes at them, in spite of himself.
"All the women you ever have met, from the daughter of the cross-roads
singing beneath her lantern to the fair patrician scattering leaves from
the top of her litter, all the forms you have caught a glimpse of, all
the imaginings of your desire, ask for them! I am not a woman--I am a
world. My garments have but to fall, and you shall discover upon my
person a succession of mysteries."
Antony's teeth chattered.
"If you placed your finger on my shoulder, it would be like a stream of
fire in your veins. The possession of the least part of my body will
fill you with a joy more vehement than the conquest of an empire. Bring
your lips near! My kisses have the taste of fruit which would melt in
your heart. Ah! how you will lose yourself in my tresses, caress my
breasts, marvel at my limbs, and be scorched by my eyes, between my
arms, in a whirlwind----"
Antony makes the sign of the Cross.
"So, then, you disdain me! Farewell!"
She turns away weeping; then she returns.
"Are you quite sure? So lovely a woman?"
She laughs, and the ape who holds the end of her robe lifts it up.
"You will repent, my fine hermit! you will groan; you will be sick of
life! but I will mock at you! la! la! la! oh! oh! oh!"
