“Heaven keep her happy!” said the Chemist aloud, “and you too, Philip!
and you, William!  I must consider what to do in this.  I may desire to
see this student, I’ll not detain you any longer now.  Good-night!”
“I thank’ee, sir, I thank’ee!” said the old man, “for Mouse, and for my
son William, and for myself.  Where’s my son William?  William, you take
the lantern and go on first, through them long dark passages, as you did
last year and the year afore.  Ha ha!  _I_ remember—though I’m
eighty-seven!  ‘Lord, keep my memory green!’  It’s a very good prayer,
Mr. Redlaw, that of the learned gentleman in the peaked beard, with a
ruff round his neck—hangs up, second on the right above the panelling, in
what used to be, afore our ten poor gentlemen commuted, our great Dinner
Hall.  ‘Lord, keep my memory green!’  It’s very good and pious, sir.
Amen!  Amen!”
As they passed out and shut the heavy door, which, however carefully
withheld, fired a long train of thundering reverberations when it shut at
last, the room turned darker.
As he fell a musing in his chair alone, the healthy holly withered on the
wall, and dropped—dead branches.
As the gloom and shadow thickened behind him, in that place where it had
been gathering so darkly, it took, by slow degrees,—or out of it there
came, by some unreal, unsubstantial process—not to be traced by any human
sense,—an awful likeness of himself!
Ghastly and cold, colourless in its leaden face and hands, but with his
features, and his bright eyes, and his grizzled hair, and dressed in the
gloomy shadow of his dress, it came into his terrible appearance of
existence, motionless, without a sound.  As _he_ leaned his arm upon the
elbow of his chair, ruminating before the fire, _it_ leaned upon the
chair-back, close above him, with its appalling copy of his face looking
where his face looked, and bearing the expression his face bore.
This, then, was the Something that had passed and gone already.  This was
the dread companion of the haunted man!
It took, for some moments, no more apparent heed of him, than he of it.
The Christmas Waits were playing somewhere in the distance, and, through
his thoughtfulness, he seemed to listen to the music.  It seemed to
listen too.
At length he spoke; without moving or lifting up his face.
“Here again!” he said.
“Here again,” replied the Phantom.
“I see you in the fire,” said the haunted man; “I hear you in music, in
the wind, in the dead stillness of the night.”
The Phantom moved its head, assenting.
“Why do you come, to haunt me thus?”
“I come as I am called,” replied the Ghost.
“No.  Unbidden,” exclaimed the Chemist.
“Unbidden be it,” said the Spectre.  “It is enough.  I am here.”
Hitherto the light of the fire had shone on the two faces—if the dread
lineaments behind the chair might be called a face—both addressed towards
it, as at first, and neither looking at the other.  But, now, the haunted
man turned, suddenly, and stared upon the Ghost.  The Ghost, as sudden in
its motion, passed to before the chair, and stared on him.
