During the three days that followed my arrival, I did not go to work.
Some respite was always given to prisoners just arrived, in order to
allow them to recover from their fatigue. The second day I had to go out
of the convict prison in order to be ironed. My chain was not of the
regulation pattern; it was composed of rings, which gave forth a clear
sound, so I heard other convicts say. I had to wear them externally over
my clothes, whereas my companions had chains formed, not of rings, but
of four links, as thick as the finger, and fastened together by three
links which were worn beneath the trousers. To the central ring was
fastened a strip of leather, tied in its turn to a girdle fastened over
the shirt.
I can see again the first morning that I passed in the convict prison.
The drum sounded in the orderly room, near the principal entrance. Ten
minutes afterwards the under officer opened the barracks. The convicts
woke up one after another and rose trembling with cold from their plank
bedsteads, by the dull light of a tallow candle. Nearly all of them were
morose; they yawned and stretched themselves. Their foreheads, marked by
the iron, were contracted. Some made the sign of the Cross; others began
to talk nonsense. The cold air from outside rushed in as soon as the
door was opened. Then the prisoners hurried round the pails full of
water, one after another, and took water in their mouths, and, letting
it out into their hands, washed their faces. Those pails had been
brought in the night before by a prisoner specially appointed, according
to the rules, to clean the barracks.
The convicts chose him themselves. He did not work with the others, for
it was his business to examine the camp bedsteads and the floors, to
fetch and carry water. This water served in the morning for the
prisoners' ablutions, and the rest during the day for ordinary drinking.
That very morning there were disputes on the subject of one of the
pitchers.
"What are you doing there with your marked forehead?" grumbled one of
the prisoners, tall, dry, and sallow.
He attracted attention by the strange protuberances with which his skull
was covered. He pushed against another convict round and small, with a
lively rubicund countenance.
"Just wait."
"What are you crying out about? You know that a fine must be paid when
the others are kept waiting. Off with you. What a monument, my
brethren!"
"A little calf," he went on muttering. "See, the white bread of the
prison has fattened him."
"For what do you take yourself? A fine bird, indeed."
"You are about right."
"What bird do you mean?"
"You don't require to be told."
"How so?"
"Find out."
They devoured one another with their eyes. The little man, waiting for a
reply, with clenched fists, was apparently ready to fight. I thought
that an encounter would take place. It was all quite new to me;
accordingly I watched the scene with curiosity. Later on I learnt that
such quarrels were very innocent, that they served for entertainment.
Like an amusing comedy, it scarcely ever ended in blows. This
characteristic plainly informed me of the manners of the prisoners.
