LUCIUS.
I know his lordship is but merry with me;
He cannot want fifty-five hundred talents.
SERVILIUS.
But in the mean time he wants less, my lord.
If his occasion were not virtuous,
I should not urge it half so faithfully.
LUCIUS.
Dost thou speak seriously, Servilius?
SERVILIUS.
Upon my soul, 'tis true, sir.
LUCIUS.
What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myself against such
a good time, when I might ha' shown myself honourable! how
unluckily it happened, that I should purchase the day before for
a little part, and undo a great deal of honour! Servilius, now,
before the gods, I am not able to do; the more beast, I say; I
was sending to use Lord Timon myself, these gentlemen can
witness; but I would not, for the wealth of Athens, I had done it
now. Commend me bountifully to his good lordship; and I hope his
honour will conceive the fairest of me, because I have no power
to be kin: and tell him this from me, I count it one of my
greatest afflictions say, that I cannot pleasure such an
honourable gentleman. Good Servilius, will you befriend me so far
as to use mine own words to him?
SERVILIUS.
Yes, sir, I shall.
LUCIUS.
I'll look you out a good turn, Servilius.
[Exit SERVILIUS.]
True, as you said, Timon is shrunk indeed;
And he that's once denied will hardly speed.
[Exit.]
FIRST STRANGER.
Do you observe this, Hostilius?
SECOND STRANGER.
Ay, too well.
FIRST STRANGER.
Why, this is the world's soul; and just of the same piece
Is every flatterer's spirit. Who can call him
His friend that dips in the same dish? for, in
My knowing, Timon has been this lord's father,
And kept his credit with his purse,
Supported his estate; nay, Timon's money
Has paid his men their wages: He ne'er drinks
But Timon's silver treads upon his lip;
And yet, O! see the monstrousness of man,
When he looks out in an ungrateful shape,
He does deny him, in respect of his,
What charitable men afford to beggars.
THIRD STRANGER.
Religion groans at it.
FIRST STRANGER.
For mine own part,
I never tasted Timon in my life,
Nor came any of his bounties over me
To mark me for his friend; yet I protest,
For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue,
And honourable carriage,
Had his necessity made use of me,
I would have put my wealth into donation,
And the best half should have return'd to him,
So much I love his heart. But, I perceive,
Men must learn now with pity to dispense;
For policy sits above conscience.
[Exeunt.]
Scene III. The Same. A Room in SEMPRONIUS' House.
[Enter SEMPRONIUS and a SERVANT of TIMON'S.]
SEMPRONIUS.
Must he needs trouble me in't? Hum! 'bove all others?
He might have tried Lord Lucius, or Lucullus;
And now Ventidius is wealthy too,
Whom he redeem'd from prison: all these
Owe their estates unto him.
SERVANT.
My lord,
They have all been touch'd and found base metal, for
They have all denied him.
