_June 17._ This day I spent in cooking it, found in her threescore eggs,
and her flesh the most savoury and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.
_June 18._ I staid within this day, there being a continual rain; and it
was somewhat more chilly and cold than usual.
_June 19._ Exceedingly bad, being taken with a trembling and shivering.
_June 20._ Awake all night, my head racked with pain and feverish.
_June 21._ Sick unto death, and terrified with the dismal apprehensions
of my condition. Prayed to God more frequently, but very confusedly.
_June 22._ Something better, but still uneasy in my mind.
_June 23._ Again relapsed much as before.
_June 24._ Mended a second time.
_June 25._ A violent ague for seven hours, cold and hot fits succeeded
with faint sweats.
_June 26._ Better, but very weak, yet I scrambled out, shot a she-goat,
brought it home and broiled some of it; I would willingly have stewed
it, and made some broth, but had no pod.
_June 27_ All this day I was afflicted with an ague; thirsty, yet I
could not help myself to water: Prayed to God in these words: _Lord, in
pity look upon me: Lord, have mercy upon me: have mercy upon me!_ After
this I fell asleep, which I found had much refreshed me when I awaked. I
fell fast asleep a second time, and fell into this strange and terrible
sort of dream.
Methought I was sitting on the same spot of ground at the outside of the
wall where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake; and that I
saw a man descending from a great black cloud, and alight upon the
ground. He was all over as bright as a flash of fire that a little
before surrounded him; his countenance inconceivably terrible; the earth
as it were trembled when he stept upon the ground, and flashes of fire
seemed to fill all the air. No sooner I thought him landed upon the
earth, but with a long spear, or other weapon, he made towards me; but
first ascending a rising ground, his voice added to my amazement, when I
thought I heard him pronounce these dreadful words, _Unhappy wretch!
seeing all these things have not brought thee to repentance, thou shalt
immediately die._ In pronouncing this dreadful sentence, I thought he
went to kill me with the spear that was in his hand.
Any body may think it impossible for me to express the horrors of my
mind at this vision: and even when I awaked, this very dream made a deep
impression upon my mind. The little divine knowledge I had, I received
from my father's instructions, and that was worn out by an uninterrupted
series of sea-faring impiety for eight years space. Except what sickness
forced from me, I do not remember I had one thought of lifting up my
heart towards God, but rather had a certain stupidity of soul, not
having the least sense or fear of the Omnipotent Being when in distress,
nor of gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when I was on the
desperate expedition on the desert African shore, I cannot remember I
had one thought of what would become of me, or to beg his consolation
and assistance in my sufferings and distress. When the Portugal captain
took me up and honorably used me, nay, farther, when I was even
delivered from drowning by escaping to this island, I never looked upon
it as a judgment, but only said I was an unfortunate dog, and that's
all. Indeed some secret transports of soul I had, which was not through
grace but only a common flight of joy, that I was yet alive, when my
companions were all drowned, and no other joy could I conceive but what
is common with the sailors over a bowl of punch, after they have escaped
the greatest dangers.
