"But is it safe . . . for the . . . the working of the ship," I urged,
"to take such a lunatic along?"
She shrugged her shoulders, as if not intending to reply, then said:
"This incident is nothing.  There are always several lunatics or idiots
in every ship's company.  And they always come aboard filled with whiskey
and raving.  I remember, once, when we sailed from Seattle, a long time
ago, one such madman.  He showed no signs of madness at all; just calmly
seized two boarding-house runners and sprang overboard with them.  We
sailed the same day, before the bodies were recovered."
Again she shrugged her shoulders.
"What would you?  The sea is hard, Mr. Pathurst.  And for our sailors we
get the worst type of men.  I sometimes wonder where they find them.  And
we do our best with them, and somehow manage to make them help us carry
on our work in the world.  But they are low . . . low."
As I listened, and studied her face, contrasting her woman's sensitivity
and her soft pretty dress with the brute faces and rags of the men I had
noticed, I could not help being convinced intellectually of the rightness
of her position.  Nevertheless, I was hurt sentimentally,--chiefly, I do
believe, because of the very hardness and unconcern with which she
enunciated her view.  It was because she was a woman, and so different
from the sea-creatures, that I resented her having received such harsh
education in the school of the sea.
"I could not help remarking your father's--er, er _sang froid_ during the
occurrence."  I ventured.
"He never took his hands from his pockets!" she cried.
Her eyes sparkled as I nodded confirmation.
"I knew it!  It's his way.  I've seen it so often.  I remember when I was
twelve years old--mother was alone--we were running into San Francisco.
It was in the _Dixie_, a ship almost as big as this.  There was a strong
fair wind blowing, and father did not take a tug.  We sailed right
through the Golden Gate and up the San Francisco water-front.  There was
a swift flood tide, too; and the men, both watches, were taking in sail
as fast as they could.
"Now the fault was the steamboat captain's.  He miscalculated our speed
and tried to cross our bow.  Then came the collision, and the _Dixie's_
bow cut through that steamboat, cabin and hull.  There were hundreds of
passengers, men, women, and children.  Father never took his hands from
his pockets.  He sent the mate for'ard to superintend rescuing the
passengers, who were already climbing on to our bowsprit and forecastle-
head, and in a voice no different from what he'd use to ask some one to
pass the butter he told the second mate to set all sail.  And he told him
which sails to begin with."
"But why set more sails?" I interrupted.
"Because he could see the situation.  Don't you see, the steamboat was
cut wide open.  All that kept her from sinking instantly was the bow of
the _Dixie_ jammed into her side.  By setting more sail and keeping
before the wind, he continued to keep the bow of the _Dixie_ jammed.
