The dwarf's lodging on Tower hill comprised, besides the needful
accommodation for himself and Mrs Quilp, a small sleeping-closet for
that lady's mother, who resided with the couple and waged perpetual war
with Daniel; of whom, notwithstanding, she stood in no slight dread.
Indeed, the ugly creature contrived by some means or other--whether by
his ugliness or his ferocity or his natural cunning is no great
matter--to impress with a wholesome fear of his anger, most of those
with whom he was brought into daily contact and communication. Over
nobody had he such complete ascendance as Mrs Quilp herself--a pretty
little, mild-spoken, blue-eyed woman, who having allied herself in
wedlock to the dwarf in one of those strange infatuations of which
examples are by no means scarce, performed a sound practical penance
for her folly, every day of her life.
It has been said that Mrs Quilp was pining in her bower. In her bower
she was, but not alone, for besides the old lady her mother of whom
mention has recently been made, there were present some half-dozen
ladies of the neighborhood who had happened by a strange accident (and
also by a little understanding among themselves) to drop in one after
another, just about tea-time. This being a season favourable to
conversation, and the room being a cool, shady, lazy kind of place,
with some plants at the open window shutting out the dust, and
interposing pleasantly enough between the tea table within and the old
Tower without, it is no wonder that the ladies felt an inclination to
talk and linger, especially when there are taken into account the
additional inducements of fresh butter, new bread, shrimps, and
watercresses.
Now, the ladies being together under these circumstances, it was
extremely natural that the discourse should turn upon the propensity of
mankind to tyrannize over the weaker sex, and the duty that developed
upon the weaker sex to resist that tyranny and assert their rights and
dignity. It was natural for four reasons: firstly, because Mrs Quilp
being a young woman and notoriously under the dominion of her husband
ought to be excited to rebel; secondly, because Mrs Quilp's parent was
known to be laudably shrewish in her disposition and inclined to resist
male authority; thirdly, because each visitor wished to show for
herself how superior she was in this respect to the generality of her
sex; and fourthly, because the company being accustomed to scandalise
each other in pairs, were deprived of their usual subject of
conversation now that they were all assembled in close friendship, and
had consequently no better employment than to attack the common enemy.
Moved by these considerations, a stout lady opened the proceedings by
inquiring, with an air of great concern and sympathy, how Mr Quilp was;
whereunto Mr Quilp's wife's mother replied sharply, 'Oh! He was well
enough--nothing much was every the matter with him--and ill weeds were
sure to thrive.' All the ladies then sighed in concert, shook their
heads gravely, and looked at Mrs Quilp as a martyr.
