"This is not my own fantastical opinion--many people have thought the
same; but I feel it so deeply that I'll tell you what I think. I believe
that to execute a man for murder is to punish him immeasurably more
dreadfully than is equivalent to his crime. A murder by sentence is
far more dreadful than a murder committed by a criminal. The man who is
attacked by robbers at night, in a dark wood, or anywhere, undoubtedly
hopes and hopes that he may yet escape until the very moment of his
death. There are plenty of instances of a man running away, or imploring
for mercy--at all events hoping on in some degree--even after his throat
was cut. But in the case of an execution, that last hope--having which
it is so immeasurably less dreadful to die,--is taken away from the
wretch and _certainty_ substituted in its place! There is his sentence,
and with it that terrible certainty that he cannot possibly escape
death--which, I consider, must be the most dreadful anguish in the
world. You may place a soldier before a cannon's mouth in battle, and
fire upon him--and he will still hope. But read to that same soldier his
death-sentence, and he will either go mad or burst into tears. Who dares
to say that any man can suffer this without going mad? No, no! it is
an abuse, a shame, it is unnecessary--why should such a thing exist?
Doubtless there may be men who have been sentenced, who have suffered
this mental anguish for a while and then have been reprieved; perhaps
such men may have been able to relate their feelings afterwards. Our
Lord Christ spoke of this anguish and dread. No! no! no! No man should
be treated so, no man, no man!"
The servant, though of course he could not have expressed all this
as the prince did, still clearly entered into it and was greatly
conciliated, as was evident from the increased amiability of his
expression. "If you are really very anxious for a smoke," he remarked,
"I think it might possibly be managed, if you are very quick about it.
You see they might come out and inquire for you, and you wouldn't be on
the spot. You see that door there? Go in there and you'll find a little
room on the right; you can smoke there, only open the window, because I
ought not to allow it really, and--." But there was no time, after all.
A young fellow entered the ante-room at this moment, with a bundle
of papers in his hand. The footman hastened to help him take off his
overcoat. The new arrival glanced at the prince out of the corners of
his eyes.
"This gentleman declares, Gavrila Ardalionovitch," began the man,
confidentially and almost familiarly, "that he is Prince Muishkin and
a relative of Madame Epanchin's. He has just arrived from abroad, with
nothing but a bundle by way of luggage--."
The prince did not hear the rest, because at this point the servant
continued his communication in a whisper.
