Toby listened with great gravity, and began to feel more comfortable.
‘Your only business, my good fellow,’ pursued Sir Joseph, looking
abstractedly at Toby; ‘your only business in life is with me.  You
needn’t trouble yourself to think about anything.  I will think for you;
I know what is good for you; I am your perpetual parent.  Such is the
dispensation of an all-wise Providence!  Now, the design of your creation
is—not that you should swill, and guzzle, and associate your enjoyments,
brutally, with food; Toby thought remorsefully of the tripe; ‘but that
you should feel the Dignity of Labour.  Go forth erect into the cheerful
morning air, and—and stop there.  Live hard and temperately, be
respectful, exercise your self-denial, bring up your family on next to
nothing, pay your rent as regularly as the clock strikes, be punctual in
your dealings (I set you a good example; you will find Mr. Fish, my
confidential secretary, with a cash-box before him at all times); and you
may trust to me to be your Friend and Father.’
‘Nice children, indeed, Sir Joseph!’ said the lady, with a shudder.
‘Rheumatisms, and fevers, and crooked legs, and asthmas, and all kinds of
horrors!’
‘My lady,’ returned Sir Joseph, with solemnity, ‘not the less am I the
Poor Man’s Friend and Father.  Not the less shall he receive
encouragement at my hands.  Every quarter-day he will be put in
communication with Mr. Fish.  Every New Year’s Day, myself and friends
will drink his health.  Once every year, myself and friends will address
him with the deepest feeling.  Once in his life, he may even perhaps
receive; in public, in the presence of the gentry; a Trifle from a
Friend.  And when, upheld no more by these stimulants, and the Dignity of
Labour, he sinks into his comfortable grave, then, my lady’—here Sir
Joseph blew his nose—‘I will be a Friend and a Father—on the same
terms—to his children.’
Toby was greatly moved.
‘O! You have a thankful family, Sir Joseph!’ cried his wife.
‘My lady,’ said Sir Joseph, quite majestically, ‘Ingratitude is known to
be the sin of that class.  I expect no other return.’
‘Ah!  Born bad!’ thought Toby.  ‘Nothing melts us.’
‘What man can do, _I_ do,’ pursued Sir Joseph.  ‘I do my duty as the Poor
Man’s Friend and Father; and I endeavour to educate his mind, by
inculcating on all occasions the one great moral lesson which that class
requires.  That is, entire Dependence on myself.  They have no business
whatever with—with themselves.  If wicked and designing persons tell them
otherwise, and they become impatient and discontented, and are guilty of
insubordinate conduct and black-hearted ingratitude; which is undoubtedly
the case; I am their Friend and Father still.  It is so Ordained.  It is
in the nature of things.’
With that great sentiment, he opened the Alderman’s letter; and read it.
‘Very polite and attentive, I am sure!’ exclaimed Sir Joseph.  ‘My lady,
the Alderman is so obliging as to remind me that he has had “the
distinguished honour”—he is very good—of meeting me at the house of our
mutual friend Deedles, the banker; and he does me the favour to inquire
whether it will be agreeable to me to have Will Fern put down.’
