"Here the goblin gave a loud shrill laugh, which the echoes returned
twenty-fold: and throwing his legs up in the air, stood upon his head,
or rather upon the very point of his sugar-loaf hat, on the narrow
edge of the tombstone: whence he threw a somerset with extraordinary
agility, right to the sexton's feet, at which he planted himself in the
attitude in which tailors generally sit upon the shop-board.
"'I--I--am afraid I must leave you, sir,' said the sexton, making an
effort to move.
"'Leave us!' said the goblin, 'Gabriel Grub going to leave us. Ho! ho!
ho!'
"As the goblin laughed, the sexton observed, for one instant, a
brilliant illumination within the windows of the church, as if the
whole building were lighted up; it disappeared, the organ pealed forth
a lively air, and whole troops of goblins, the very counterpart of the
first one, poured into the churchyard, and began playing at leap-frog
with the tombstones: never stopping for an instant to take breath, but
'overing' the highest among them, one after the other, with the utmost
marvellous dexterity. The first goblin was a most astonishing leaper,
and none of the others could come near him; even in the extremity of
his terror the sexton could not help observing, that while his friends
were content to leap over the common-sized gravestones, the first one
took the family vaults, iron railings and all, with as much ease as if
they had been so many street posts.
"At last the game reached to a most exciting pitch; the organ played
quicker and quicker; and the goblins leaped faster and faster: coiling
themselves up, rolling head over heels upon the ground, and bounding
over the tombstones like footballs. The sexton's brain whirled round
with the rapidity of the motion he beheld, and his legs reeled beneath
him, as the spirits flew before his eyes: when the goblin king,
suddenly darting towards him, laid his hand upon his collar, and sank
with him through the earth.
"When Gabriel Grub had had time to fetch his breath, which the rapidity
of his descent had for the moment taken away, he found himself in what
appeared to be a huge cavern, surrounded on all sides by crowds of
goblins, ugly and grim; in the centre of the room, on an elevated seat,
was stationed his friend of the churchyard; and close beside him stood
Gabriel Grub himself, without power of motion.
"'Cold to-night,' said the king of the goblins, 'very cold. A glass of
something warm, here!'
"At this command, half a dozen officious goblins, with a perpetual
smile upon their faces, whom Gabriel Grub imagined to be courtiers, on
that account, hastily disappeared, and presently returned with a goblet
of liquid fire, which they presented to the king.
"'Ah!' cried the goblin, whose cheeks and throat were transparent, as
he tossed down the flame, 'this warms one, indeed! Bring a bumper of
the same for Mr. Grub.'
"It was in vain for the unfortunate sexton to protest that he was not
in the habit of taking anything warm at night; one of the goblins held
him while another poured the blazing liquid down his throat; the whole
assembly screeched with laughter as he coughed and choked, and wiped
away the tears which gushed plentifully from his eyes, after swallowing
the burning draught.
