The mother was the widow of a poor soldier, who, while still young, had
been sentenced by a court-martial, and had died in the infirmary of the
convict prison while I was there. They wept hot tears when they came to
bid him good-bye. On seeing me the little girl blushed, and murmured a
few words into her mother's ear, who stopped, and took from a basket a
kopeck which she gave to the little girl. The little girl ran after me.
"Here, poor man," she said, "take this in the name of Christ." I took
the money which she slipped into my hand. The little girl returned
joyfully to her mother. I preserved that kopeck a considerable time.
FOOTNOTES:
[1] Goriantchikoff became himself a soldier in Siberia, when he had
finished his term of imprisonment.
[2] An allusion to the two rows of soldiers, armed with green rods,
between which convicts condemned to corporal punishment had and still
have to pass. But this punishment now exists only for convicts deprived
of all their civil rights. This subject will be returned to further on.
[3] Men condemned to hard labour, and exiles generally, are so called by
the Russian peasantry.
CHAPTER III.
FIRST IMPRESSIONS
During the first weeks, and naturally the early part of my imprisonment,
made a deep impression on my imagination. The following years on the
other hand are all mixed up together, and leave but a confused
recollection. Certain epochs of this life are even effaced from my
memory. I have kept one general impression of it, always the same;
painful, monotonous, stifling. What I saw in experience during the first
days of my imprisonment seems to me as if it had all taken place
yesterday. Such was sure to be the case. I remember perfectly that in
the first place this life astonished me by the very fact that it offered
nothing particular, nothing extraordinary, or to express myself better,
nothing unexpected. It was not until later on, when I had lived some
time in the convict prison, that I understood all that was exceptional
and unforeseen in such a life. I was astonished at the discovery. I will
avow that this astonishment remained with me throughout my term of
punishment. I could not decidedly reconcile myself to this existence.
First of all, I experienced an invincible repugnance on arriving; but
oddly enough the life seemed to me less painful than I had imagined on
the journey.
Indeed, prisoners, though embarrassed by their irons went to and fro in
the prison freely enough. They insulted one another, sang, worked,
smoked pipes, and drank spirits. There were not many drinkers all the
same. There were also regular card parties during the night. The labour
did not seem to me very trying; I fancied that it could not be the real
"hard labour." I did not understand till long afterwards why this labour
was really hard and excessive. It was less by reason of its difficulty,
than because it was forced, imposed, obligatory; and it was only done
through fear of the stick. The peasant works certainly harder than the
convict, for, during the summer, he works night and day. But it is in
his own interest that he fatigues himself. His aim is reasonable, so
that he suffers less than the convict who performs hard labour from
which he derives no profit. It once came into my head that if it were
desired to reduce a man to nothing--to punish him atrociously, to crush
him in such a manner that the most hardened murderer would tremble
before such a punishment, and take fright beforehand--it would be
necessary to give to his work a character of complete uselessness, even
to absurdity.
