My lady hesitated over the word "lover," and changed it, for to her
Octavia still seemed a child, and though anxious for the alliance, she
forbore to speak openly, lest the girl should turn willful, as she
inherited her mother's high spirit.
"I'm sorry, Mamma. But how can I help it, when he teases me so that I
detest him?" said Octavia, petulantly.
"How tease, my love?"
"Why, he follows me about like a dog, puts on a sentimental look when I
appear; blushes, and beams, and bows at everything I say, if I am
polite; frowns and sighs if I'm not; and glowers tragically at every man
I speak to, even poor Maurice. Oh, Mamma, what foolish creatures men
are!" And the girl laughed blithely, as she looked up for the first time
into her mother's face.
My lady smiled, as she stroked the bright head at her knee, but asked
quickly, "Why say 'even poor Maurice,' as if it were impossible for
anyone to be jealous of him?"
"But isn't it, Mamma? I thought strong, well men regarded him as one set
apart and done with, since his sad misfortune."
"Not entirely; while women pity and pet the poor fellow, his comrades
will be jealous, absurd as it is."
"No one pets him but me, and I have a right to do it, for he is my
cousin," said the girl, feeling a touch of jealousy herself.
"Rose and Blanche Talbot outdo you, my dear, and there is no cousinship
to excuse them."
"Then let Frank Annon be jealous of them, and leave me in peace. They
promised to come today; I'm afraid something has happened to prevent
them." And Octavia gladly seized upon the new subject. But my lady was
not to be eluded.
"They said they could not come till after dinner. They will soon arrive.
Before they do so, I must say a few words, Tavia, and I beg you to give
heed to them. I desire you to be courteous and amiable to Mr. Annon, and
before strangers to be less attentive and affectionate to Maurice. You
mean it kindly, but it looks ill, and causes disagreeable remarks."
"Who blames me for being devoted to my cousin? Can I ever do enough to
repay him for his devotion? Mamma, you forget he saved your son's life."
Indignant tears filled the girl's eyes, and she spoke passionately,
forgetting that Mrs. Snowdon was within earshot of her raised voice.
With a frown my lady laid her hand on her daughter's lips, saying
coldly, "I do not forget, and I religiously discharge my every
obligation by every care and comfort it is in my power to bestow. You
are young, romantic, and tender-hearted. You think you must give your
time and health, must sacrifice your future happiness to this duty. You
are wrong, and unless you learn wisdom in season, you will find that you
have done harm, not good."
"God forbid! How can I do that? Tell me, and I will be wise in time."
