“And I suppose Seth was busy running the engine,” Mrs. Jones observed.
“I was breaking him in, wasn’t I?”  Mr. Jones protested.  “So we made the
run into Amato.  She’d never opened her mouth once, and no sooner’d the
engine stopped than she’d jumped to the ground and was gone.  Just like
that.  Not a thank you kindly.  Nothing.
“But next morning when we came to pull out for Quito with a dozen flat
cars loaded with rails, there she was in the cab waiting for us; and in
the daylight I could see how much better a looker she was than the night
before.
“‘Huh! she’s adopted you,’ Seth grins.  And it looked like it.  She just
stood there and looked at me—at us—like a loving hound dog that you love,
that you’ve caught with a string of sausages inside of him, and that just
knows you ain’t going to lift a hand to him.  ‘Go chase yourself!’ I told
her _pronto_.”  (Mrs. Jones her proximity noticeable with a wince at the
Spanish word.)  “You see, Sarah, I’d no use for her, even at the start.”
Mrs. Jones stiffened.  Her lips moved soundlessly, but I knew to what
syllables.
“And what made it hardest was Seth jeering at me.  ‘You can’t shake her
that way,’ he said.  ‘You saved her life—’  ‘I didn’t,’ I said sharply;
‘it was you.’  ‘But she thinks you did, which is the same thing,’ he came
back at me.  ‘And now she belongs to you.  Custom of the country, as you
ought to know.’”
“Heathenish,” said Mrs. Jones, and though her steady gaze was set upon
the Tower of Jewels I knew she was making no reference to its
architecture.
“‘She’s come to do light housekeeping for you,’ Seth grinned.  I let him
rave, though afterwards I kept him throwing in the coal too fast to work
his mouth very much.  Why, say, when I got to the spot where I picked her
up, and stopped the train for her to get off, she just flopped down on
her knees, got a hammerlock with her arms around my knees, and cried all
over my shoes.  What was I to do?”
With no perceptible movement that I was aware of, Mrs. Jones advertised
her certitude of knowledge of what _she_ would have done.
“And the moment we pulled into Quito, she did what she’d done
before—vanished.  Sarah never believes me when I say how relieved I felt
to be quit of her.  But it was not to be.  I got to my ’dobe house and
managed a cracking fine dinner my cook had ready for me.  She was mostly
Spiggoty and half Indian, and her name was Paloma.—Now, Sarah, haven’t I
told you she was older’n a grandmother, and looked more like a buzzard
than a dove?  Why, I couldn’t bear to eat with her around where I could
look at her.  But she did make things comfortable, and she was some
economical when it came to marketing.
