"Now how on earth am I to announce a man like that?" muttered the
servant. "In the first place, you've no right in here at all; you ought
to be in the waiting-room, because you're a sort of visitor--a guest, in
fact--and I shall catch it for this. Look here, do you intend to take up
you abode with us?" he added, glancing once more at the prince's bundle,
which evidently gave him no peace.
"No, I don't think so. I don't think I should stay even if they were
to invite me. I've simply come to make their acquaintance, and nothing
more."
"Make their acquaintance?" asked the man, in amazement, and with
redoubled suspicion. "Then why did you say you had business with the
general?"
"Oh well, very little business. There is one little matter--some
advice I am going to ask him for; but my principal object is simply to
introduce myself, because I am Prince Muishkin, and Madame Epanchin is
the last of her branch of the house, and besides herself and me there
are no other Muishkins left."
"What--you're a relation then, are you?" asked the servant, so
bewildered that he began to feel quite alarmed.
"Well, hardly so. If you stretch a point, we are relations, of course,
but so distant that one cannot really take cognizance of it. I once
wrote to your mistress from abroad, but she did not reply. However, I
have thought it right to make acquaintance with her on my arrival. I am
telling you all this in order to ease your mind, for I see you are still
far from comfortable on my account. All you have to do is to announce me
as Prince Muishkin, and the object of my visit will be plain enough. If
I am received--very good; if not, well, very good again. But they are
sure to receive me, I should think; Madame Epanchin will naturally be
curious to see the only remaining representative of her family. She
values her Muishkin descent very highly, if I am rightly informed."
The prince's conversation was artless and confiding to a degree, and
the servant could not help feeling that as from visitor to common
serving-man this state of things was highly improper. His conclusion was
that one of two things must be the explanation--either that this was a
begging impostor, or that the prince, if prince he were, was simply a
fool, without the slightest ambition; for a sensible prince with any
ambition would certainly not wait about in ante-rooms with servants, and
talk of his own private affairs like this. In either case, how was he to
announce this singular visitor?
"I really think I must request you to step into the next room!" he said,
with all the insistence he could muster.
"Why? If I had been sitting there now, I should not have had the
opportunity of making these personal explanations. I see you are still
uneasy about me and keep eyeing my cloak and bundle. Don't you think
you might go in yourself now, without waiting for the secretary to come
out?"
