Since we have entered on the chapter of Madame de Sable's weaknesses,
this is the place to mention what was the subject of endless raillery
from her friends--her elaborate precaution about her health, and her
dread of infection, even from diseases the least communicable.  Perhaps
this anxiety was founded as much on aesthetic as on physical grounds, on
disgust at the details of illness as much as on dread of suffering: with
a cold in the head or a bilious complaint, the exquisite _precieuse_ must
have been considerably less conscious of being "the ornament of the
world," and "made to be adored."  Even her friendship, strong as it was,
was not strong enough to overcome her horror of contagion; for when
Mademoiselle de Bourbon, recently become Madame de Longueville, was
attacked by small-pox, Madame de Sable for some time had not courage to
visit her, or even to see Mademoiselle de Rambouillet, who was assiduous
in her attendance on the patient.  A little correspondence _a propos_ of
these circumstances so well exhibits the graceful badinage in which the
great ladies of that day were adepts, that we are attempted to quote one
short letter.
              "_Mlle. de Rambouillet to the Marquise de Sable_."
    "Mlle, de Chalais (_dame de compagnie_ to the Marquise) will please
    to read this letter to Mme. la Marquise, _out of_ a draught.
    "Madame, I do not think it possible to begin my treaty with you too
    early, for I am convinced that between the first proposition made to
    me that I should see you, and the conclusion, you will have so many
    reflections to make, so many physicians to consult, and so many fears
    to surmount, that I shall have full leisure to air myself.  The
    conditions which I offer to fulfil for this purpose are, not to visit
    you until I have been three days absent from the Hotel de Conde
    (where Mme. de Longueville was ill), to choose a frosty day, not to
    approach you within four paces, not to sit down on more than one
    seat.  You may also have a great fire in your room, burn juniper in
    the four corners, surround yourself with imperial vinegar, with rue
    and wormwood.  If you can feel yourself safe under these conditions,
    without my cutting off my hair, I swear to you to execute them
    religiously; and if you want examples to fortify you, I can tell you
    that the Queen consented to see M. Chaudebonne, when he had come
    directly from Mme. de Bourbon's room, and that Mme. d'Aiguillon, who
    has good taste in such matters, and is free from reproach on these
    points, has just sent me word that if I did not go to see her she
    would come to me."
Madame de Sable betrays in her reply that she winces under this raillery,
and thus provokes a rather severe though polite rejoinder, which, added
to the fact that Madame de Longueville is convalescent, rouses her
courage to the pitch of paying the formidable visit.  Mademoiselle de
Rambouillet, made aware through their mutual friend Voiture, that her
sarcasm has cut rather too deep, winds up the matter by writing that very
difficult production a perfectly conciliatory yet dignified apology.
Peculiarities like this always deepen with age, and accordingly, fifteen
years later, we find Madame D'Orleans in her "Princesse de
Paphlagonia"--a romance in which she describes her court, with the little
quarrels and other affairs that agitated it--giving the following amusing
picture, or rather caricature, of the extent to which Madame de Sable
carried her pathological mania, which seems to have been shared by her
friend the Countess de Maure (Mademoiselle d'Attichy).  In the romance,
these two ladies appear under the names of Princesse Parthenie and the
Reine de Mionie.
