Mr. Jasper, with his hand to his chin, and with an expression of musing
benevolence on his face, has attentively watched every animated look and
gesture attending the delivery of these words.  He remains in that
attitude after they, are spoken, as if in a kind of fascination attendant
on his strong interest in the youthful spirit that he loves so well.
Then he says with a quiet smile:
'You won't be warned, then?'
'No, Jack.'
'You can't be warned, then?'
'No, Jack, not by you.  Besides that I don't really consider myself in
danger, I don't like your putting yourself in that position.'
'Shall we go and walk in the churchyard?'
'By all means.  You won't mind my slipping out of it for half a moment to
the Nuns' House, and leaving a parcel there?  Only gloves for Pussy; as
many pairs of gloves as she is years old to-day.  Rather poetical, Jack?'
Mr. Jasper, still in the same attitude, murmurs: '"Nothing half so sweet
in life," Ned!'
'Here's the parcel in my greatcoat-pocket.  They must be presented
to-night, or the poetry is gone.  It's against regulations for me to call
at night, but not to leave a packet.  I am ready, Jack!'
Mr. Jasper dissolves his attitude, and they go out together.
CHAPTER III--THE NUNS' HOUSE
For sufficient reasons, which this narrative will itself unfold as it
advances, a fictitious name must be bestowed upon the old Cathedral town.
Let it stand in these pages as Cloisterham.  It was once possibly known
to the Druids by another name, and certainly to the Romans by another,
and to the Saxons by another, and to the Normans by another; and a name
more or less in the course of many centuries can be of little moment to
its dusty chronicles.
An ancient city, Cloisterham, and no meet dwelling-place for any one with
hankerings after the noisy world.  A monotonous, silent city, deriving an
earthy flavour throughout from its Cathedral crypt, and so abounding in
vestiges of monastic graves, that the Cloisterham children grow small
salad in the dust of abbots and abbesses, and make dirt-pies of nuns and
friars; while every ploughman in its outlying fields renders to once
puissant Lord Treasurers, Archbishops, Bishops, and such-like, the
attention which the Ogre in the story-book desired to render to his
unbidden visitor, and grinds their bones to make his bread.
A drowsy city, Cloisterham, whose inhabitants seem to suppose, with an
inconsistency more strange than rare, that all its changes lie behind it,
and that there are no more to come.  A queer moral to derive from
antiquity, yet older than any traceable antiquity.  So silent are the
streets of Cloisterham (though prone to echo on the smallest
provocation), that of a summer-day the sunblinds of its shops scarce dare
to flap in the south wind; while the sun-browned tramps, who pass along
and stare, quicken their limp a little, that they may the sooner get
beyond the confines of its oppressive respectability.  This is a feat not
difficult of achievement, seeing that the streets of Cloisterham city are
little more than one narrow street by which you get into it and get out
of it: the rest being mostly disappointing yards with pumps in them and
no thoroughfare--exception made of the Cathedral-close, and a paved
Quaker settlement, in colour and general confirmation very like a
Quakeress's bonnet, up in a shady corner.
