Was not the woman, who could unite the ease and grace indicated by this
letter, with an intellect that men thought worth consulting on matters of
reasoning and philosophy, with warm affections, untiring activity for
others, no ambition as an authoress, and an insight into _confitures_ and
_ragouts_, a rare combination?  No wonder that her _salon_ at Port Royal
was the favorite resort of such women as Madame de la Fayette, Madame de
Montausier, Madame de Longueville, and Madame de Hautefort; and of such
men as Pascal, La Rochefoucauld, Nicole, and Domat.  The collections of
Valant contain papers which show what were the habitual subjects of
conversation in this salon.  Theology, of course, was a chief topic; but
physics and metaphysics had their turn, and still more frequently morals,
taken in their widest sense.  There were "Conferences on Calvinism," of
which an abstract is preserved.  When Rohault invented his glass tubes to
serve for the barometrical experiments in which Pascal had roused a
strong interest, the Marquis de Sourdis entertained the society with a
paper entitled "Why Water Mounts in a Glass Tube."  Cartesianism was an
exciting topic here, as well as everywhere else in France; it had its
partisans and opponents, and papers were read containing "Thoughts on the
Opinions of M. Descartes."  These lofty matters were varied by
discussions on love and friendship, on the drama, and on most of the
things in heaven and earth which the philosophy of that day dreamt of.
Morals--generalizations on human affections, sentiments, and
conduct--seem to have been the favorite theme; and the aim was to reduce
these generalizations to their briefest form of expression, to give them
the epigrammatic turn which made them portable in the memory.  This was
the specialty of Madame de Sable's circle, and was, probably, due to her
own tendency.  As the Hotel de Rambouillet was the nursery of graceful
letter-writing, and the Luxembourg of "portraits" and "characters," so
Madame de Sable's _salon_ fostered that taste for the sententious style,
to which we owe, probably, some of the best _Pensees_ of Pascal, and
certainly, the "Maxims" of La Rochefoucauld.  Madame de Sable herself
wrote maxims, which were circulated among her friends; and, after her
death, were published by the Abbe d'Ailly.  They have the excellent sense
and nobility of feeling which we should expect in everything of hers; but
they have no stamp of genius or individual character: they are, to the
"Maxims" of La Rochefoucauld, what the vase moulded in dull, heavy clay
is to the vase which the action of fire has made light, brittle, and
transparent.  She also wrote a treatise on Education, which is much
praised by La Rochefoucauld and M. d'Andilly; but which seems no longer
to be found: probably it was not much more elaborate than her so-called
"Treatise on Friendship," which is but a short string of maxims.  Madame
de Sable's forte was evidently not to write herself, but to stimulate
others to write; to show that sympathy and appreciation which are as
genial and encouraging as the morning sunbeams.  She seconded a man's wit
with understanding--one of the best offices which womanly intellect has
rendered to the advancement of culture; and the absence of originality
made her all the more receptive toward the originality of others.
