     After having breakfasted in the town,--how superior French cooking
     is! I would have looked in vain for such coffee, such an omelet, in
     my own parish,--I went off to look for the hospital. It is a girls'
     school, which has been taken over by the Red Cross, with fair-sized
     grounds and plenty of nice dry paths under the _tilleuls_. I could
     not see Chris for an hour, so I sat down on a bench by a funny,
     little round pond, with a stone coping, very French. Some wounded
     soldiers who came out to sit in the sun were rather rude because I
     was not in khaki, even when I explained that I was a priest of God
     and that the feeling of the bishops was strongly against the
     enlistment of the clergy. I do feel that the church has lost its
     grip on the masses.
     Then a nurse came out and took me in to see Chris. He is in a nice
     room, with a southern exposure, with three other officers, who
     seemed very decent (not the "new army," I am glad to say). He was
     better than I had expected, but did not look quite himself. For one
     thing, he was oddly boisterous. He seemed glad to see me, and told
     me he could remember nothing about his concussion, but that he
     wanted to get back to Harrowweald. He talked a lot about the wood
     and the upper pond and wanted to know if the daffies were out yet,
     and when he would be allowed to travel, because he felt that he
     would get well at once if only he could get home. And then he was
     silent for a minute, as though he was holding something back. It
     will perhaps help you to realize the difficulty of my position when
     you understand that all this happened before I had been in the room
     five minutes!
     Without flickering an eyelid, quite easily and naturally, he gave
     me the surprising information that he was in love with a girl
     called Margaret Allington, who is the daughter of a man who keeps
     the inn on Monkey Island, at Bray on the Thames. He uttered some
     appreciations of this woman which I was too upset to note. I
     gasped, "How long has this been going on?" He laughed at my
     surprise, and said, "Ever since I went down to stay with Uncle
     Ambrose at Dorney after I'd got my B.Sc." Fifteen years ago! I was
     still staring at him, unable to believe this barefaced admission of
     a deception carried on for years, when he went on to say that,
     though he had wired to her and she had wired a message in return,
     she hadn't said anything about coming over to see him. "Now," he
     said quite coolly, "I know old Allington's had a bad season,--oh,
     I'm quite well up in the innkeeping business these days,--and I
     think it may quite possibly be a lack of funds that is keeping her
     away. I've lost my check-book somewhere in the scrim, and so I
     wonder if you'd send her some money. Or, better still, for she's a
     shy country thing, you might fetch her."
