"You are afraid of the million, I suppose," said Gania, grinning and
showing his teeth.
"And you are _not_, I presume, eh?"
"How did he strike you, prince?" asked Gania, suddenly. "Did he seem to
be a serious sort of a man, or just a common rowdy fellow? What was your
own opinion about the matter?"
While Gania put this question, a new idea suddenly flashed into his
brain, and blazed out, impatiently, in his eyes. The general, who was
really agitated and disturbed, looked at the prince too, but did not
seem to expect much from his reply.
"I really don't quite know how to tell you," replied the prince, "but
it certainly did seem to me that the man was full of passion, and not,
perhaps, quite healthy passion. He seemed to be still far from well.
Very likely he will be in bed again in a day or two, especially if he
lives fast."
"No! do you think so?" said the general, catching at the idea.
"Yes, I do think so!"
"Yes, but the sort of scandal I referred to may happen at any moment. It
may be this very evening," remarked Gania to the general, with a smile.
"Of course; quite so. In that case it all depends upon what is going on
in her brain at this moment."
"You know the kind of person she is at times."
"How? What kind of person is she?" cried the general, arrived at the
limits of his patience. "Look here, Gania, don't you go annoying her
tonight. What you are to do is to be as agreeable towards her as ever you
can. Well, what are you smiling at? You must understand, Gania, that
I have no interest whatever in speaking like this. Whichever way the
question is settled, it will be to my advantage. Nothing will move
Totski from his resolution, so I run no risk. If there is anything I
desire, you must know that it is your benefit only. Can't you trust me?
You are a sensible fellow, and I have been counting on you; for, in this
matter, that, that--"
"Yes, that's the chief thing," said Gania, helping the general out of
his difficulties again, and curling his lips in an envenomed smile,
which he did not attempt to conceal. He gazed with his fevered eyes
straight into those of the general, as though he were anxious that the
latter might read his thoughts.
The general grew purple with anger.
"Yes, of course it is the chief thing!" he cried, looking sharply at
Gania. "What a very curious man you are, Gania! You actually seem to
be _glad_ to hear of this millionaire fellow's arrival--just as though you
wished for an excuse to get out of the whole thing. This is an affair in
which you ought to act honestly with both sides, and give due warning,
to avoid compromising others. But, even now, there is still time. Do
you understand me? I wish to know whether you desire this arrangement or
whether you do not? If not, say so,--and--and welcome! No one is trying
to force you into the snare, Gavrila Ardalionovitch, if you see a snare
in the matter, at least."
