Stepan Trofimovitch's view of the general movement was supercilious in
the extreme. In his eyes all it amounted to was that he was forgotten
and of no use. At last his name was mentioned, at first in periodicals
published abroad as that of an exiled martyr, and immediately afterwards
in Petersburg as that of a former star in a celebrated constellation.
He was even for some reason compared with Radishtchev. Then someone
printed the statement that he was dead and promised an obituary notice
of him. Stepan Trofimovitch instantly perked up and assumed an air of
immense dignity. All his disdain for his contemporaries evaporated and
he began to cherish the dream of joining the movement and showing his
powers. Varvara Petrovna's faith in everything instantly revived and she
was thrown into a violent ferment. It was decided to go to Petersburg
without a moment's delay, to find out everything on the spot, to go into
everything personally, and, if possible, to throw themselves heart and
soul into the new movement. Among other things she announced that she
was prepared to found a magazine of her own, and henceforward to devote
her whole life to it. Seeing what it had come to, Stepan Trofimovitch
became more condescending than ever, and on the journey began to behave
almost patronisingly to Varvara Petrovna--which she at once laid up in
her heart against him. She had, however, another very important reason
for the trip, which was to renew her connections in higher spheres.
It was necessary, as far as she could, to remind the world of her
existence, or at any rate to make an attempt to do so. The ostensible
object of the journey was to see her only son, who was just finishing
his studies at a Petersburg lyceum.
VI
They spent almost the whole winter season in Petersburg. But by Lent
everything burst like a rainbow-coloured soap-bubble.
Their dreams were dissipated, and the muddle, far from being cleared
up, had become even more revoltingly incomprehensible. To begin with,
connections with the higher spheres were not established, or only on a
microscopic scale, and by humiliating exertions. In her mortification
Varvara Petrovna threw herself heart and soul into the "new ideas," and
began giving evening receptions. She invited literary people, and they
were brought to her at once in multitudes. Afterwards they came of
themselves without invitation, one brought another. Never had she seen
such literary men. They were incredibly vain, but quite open in their
vanity, as though they were performing a duty by the display of it.
Some (but by no means all) of them even turned up intoxicated, seeming,
however, to detect in this a peculiar, only recently discovered, merit.
They were all strangely proud of something. On every face was written
that they had only just discovered some extremely important secret. They
abused one another, and took credit to themselves for it. It was rather
difficult to find out what they had written exactly, but among them
there were critics, novelists, dramatists, satirists, and exposers of
abuses. Stepan Trofimovitch penetrated into their very highest circle
from which the movement was directed. Incredible heights had to be
scaled to reach this group; but they gave him a cordial welcome, though,
of course, no one of them had ever heard of him or knew anything about
him except that he "represented an idea." His manoeuvres among them
were so successful that he got them twice to Varvara Petrovna's salon
in spite of their Olympian grandeur. These people were very serious and
very polite; they behaved nicely; the others were evidently afraid of
them; but it was obvious that they had no time to spare. Two or three
former literary celebrities who happened to be in Petersburg, and with
whom Varvara Petrovna had long maintained a most refined correspondence,
came also. But to her surprise these genuine and quite indubitable
celebrities were stiller than water, humbler than the grass, and some
of them simply hung on to this new rabble, and were shamefully cringing
before them. At first Stepan Trofimovitch was a success. People caught
at him and began to exhibit him at public literary gatherings. The first
time he came on to the platform at some public reading in which he was
to take part, he was received with enthusiastic clapping which lasted
for five minutes. He recalled this with tears nine years afterwards,
though rather from his natural artistic sensibility than from gratitude.
"I swear, and I'm ready to bet," he declared (but only to me, and in
secret), "that not one of that audience knew anything whatever about
me." A noteworthy admission. He must have had a keen intelligence since
he was capable of grasping his position so clearly even on the platform,
even in such a state of exaltation; it also follows that he had not
a keen intelligence if, nine years afterwards, he could not recall
it without mortification, he was made to sign two or three collective
protests (against what he did not know); he signed them. Varvara
Petrovna too was made to protest against some "disgraceful action" and
she signed too. The majority of these new people, however, though they
visited Varvara Petrovna, felt themselves for some reason called upon
to regard her with contempt, and with undisguised irony. Stepan
Trofimovitch hinted to me at bitter moments afterwards that it was from
that time she had been envious of him. She saw, of course, that she
could not get on with these people, yet she received them eagerly,
with all the hysterical impatience of her sex, and, what is more, she
expected something. At her parties she talked little, although she could
talk, but she listened the more. They talked of the abolition of the
censorship, and of phonetic spelling, of the substitution of the Latin
characters for the Russian alphabet, of someone's having been sent into
exile the day before, of some scandal, of the advantage of splitting
Russia into nationalities united in a free federation, of the abolition
of the army and the navy, of the restoration of Poland as far as
the Dnieper, of the peasant reforms, and of the manifestoes, of the
abolition of the hereditary principle, of the family, of children, and
of priests, of women's rights, of Kraevsky's house, for which no one
ever seemed able to forgive Mr. Kraevsky, and so on, and so on. It was
evident that in this mob of new people there were many impostors, but
undoubtedly there were also many honest and very attractive people, in
spite of some surprising characteristics in them. The honest ones were
far more difficult to understand than the coarse and dishonest, but it
was impossible to tell which was being made a tool of by the other.
When Varvara Petrovna announced her idea of founding a magazine, people
flocked to her in even larger numbers, but charges of being a capitalist
and an exploiter of labour were showered upon her to her face. The
rudeness of these accusations was only equalled by their unexpectedness.
The aged General Ivan Ivanovitch Drozdov, an old friend and comrade
of the late General Stavrogin's, known to us all here as an extremely
stubborn and irritable, though very estimable, man (in his own way, of
course), who ate a great deal, and was dreadfully afraid of atheism,
quarrelled at one of Varvara Petrovna's parties with a distinguished
young man. The latter at the first word exclaimed, "You must be a
general if you talk like that," meaning that he could find no word of
abuse worse than "general."
