"You don't mean to say he was burked, Sam?" said Mr. Pickwick, looking
hastily round.
"No, I don't indeed, sir," replied Mr. Weller, "I wish I did; far worse
than that. He was the master o' that 'ere shop, sir, and the inwenter
o' the patent never-leavin'-off sassage steam ingine, as 'ud swaller up
a pavin' stone if you put it too near, and grind it into sassages as
easy as if it was a tender young baby. Wery proud o' that machine he
was, as it was nat'ral he should be, and he'd stand down in the cellar
a lookin' at it wen it was in full play, till he got quite melancholy
with joy. A wery happy man he'd ha' been, sir, in the procession o'
that 'ere ingine and two more lovely hinfants besides, if it hadn't
been for his wife, who was a most ow-dacious wixin. She was always a
follerin' him about and dinnin' in his ears, till at last he couldn't
stand it no longer. 'I'll tell you what it is, my dear,' he says one
day; 'if you persewere in this here sort of amusement,' he says, 'I'm
blessed if I don't go away to 'Merriker; and that's all about it.'
'You're a idle willin,' says she, 'and I wish the 'Merrikins joy of
their bargain.' Arter wich she keeps on abusin' of him for half an
hour, and then runs into the little parlour behind the shop, sets to a
screamin', says he'll be the death on her, and falls in a fit, which
lasts for three good hours--one o' them fits wich is all screamin' and
kickin'. Well, next mornin', the husband was missin'. He hadn't taken
nothin' from the till--hadn't even put on his great-coat--so it was
quite clear he warn't gone to 'Merriker. Didn't come back next day;
didn't come back next week; Missis had bills printed, sayin' that,
if he'd come back, he should be forgiven everythin' (which was very
liberal, seein' that he hadn't done nothin' at all); the canals was
dragged, and for two months artervards, wenever a body turned up, it
was carried, as a reg'lar thing, straight off to the sassage shop.
Hows'ever, none on 'em answered; so they gave out that he'd run avay,
and she kep' on the bis'ness. One Saturday night, a little thin old
gen'l'm'n comes into the shop in a great passion and says, 'Are you
the missis o' this here shop?' 'Yes, I am,' says she. 'Well, ma'am,'
says he, 'then I've just looked in to say that me and my family ain't
a goin' to be choked for nothin'; and more than that, ma'am,' he says,
'you'll allow me to observe, that as you don't use the primest parts of
the meat in the manafacter o' sassages, I think you'd find beef come
nearly as cheap as buttons.' 'As buttons, sir!' says she. 'Buttons,
ma'am,' says the little old gen'l'm'n, unfolding a bit of paper,
and showing twenty or thirty halves o' buttons. 'Nice seasonin' for
sassages, is trousers buttons, ma'am.' 'They're my husband's buttons!'
says the widder, beginnin' to faint. 'What!' screams the little old
gen'l'm'n, turnin' wery pale. 'I see it all,' says the widder; 'in a
fit of temporary insanity he rashly converted his-self into sassages!'
And so he had, sir," said Mr. Weller, looking steadily into Mr.
Pickwick's horror-stricken countenance, "or else he'd been draw'd into
the ingine; but however that might ha' been, the little old gen'l'm'n,
who had been remarkably partial to sassages all his life, rushed out o'
the shop in a wild state, and was never heard on artervards!"
