They that dwelt about Percote and Practius, with Sestos, Abydos, and
Arisbe--these were led by Asius, son of Hyrtacus, a brave
commander--Asius, the son of Hyrtacus, whom his powerful dark bay
steeds, of the breed that comes from the river Selleis, had brought
from Arisbe.
Hippothous led the tribes of Pelasgian spearsmen, who dwelt in fertile
Larissa--Hippothous, and Pylaeus of the race of Mars, two sons of the
Pelasgian Lethus, son of Teutamus.
Acamas and the warrior Peirous commanded the Thracians and those that
came from beyond the mighty stream of the Hellespont.
Euphemus, son of Troezenus, the son of Ceos, was captain of the
Ciconian spearsmen.
Pyraechmes led the Paeonian archers from distant Amydon, by the broad
waters of the river Axius, the fairest that flow upon the earth.
The Paphlagonians were commanded by stout-hearted Pylaemanes from
Enetae, where the mules run wild in herds. These were they that held
Cytorus and the country round Sesamus, with the cities by the river
Parthenius, Cromna, Aegialus, and lofty Erithini.
Odius and Epistrophus were captains over the Halizoni from distant
Alybe, where there are mines of silver.
Chromis, and Ennomus the augur, led the Mysians, but his skill in
augury availed not to save him from destruction, for he fell by the
hand of the fleet descendant of Aeacus in the river, where he slew
others also of the Trojans.
Phorcys, again, and noble Ascanius led the Phrygians from the far
country of Ascania, and both were eager for the fray.
Mesthles and Antiphus commanded the Meonians, sons of Talaemenes, born
to him of the Gygaean lake. These led the Meonians, who dwelt under Mt.
Tmolus.
Nastes led the Carians, men of a strange speech. These held Miletus and
the wooded mountain of Phthires, with the water of the river Maeander
and the lofty crests of Mt. Mycale. These were commanded by Nastes and
Amphimachus, the brave sons of Nomion. He came into the fight with gold
about him, like a girl; fool that he was, his gold was of no avail to
save him, for he fell in the river by the hand of the fleet descendant
of Aeacus, and Achilles bore away his gold.
Sarpedon and Glaucus led the Lycians from their distant land, by the
eddying waters of the Xanthus.
BOOK III
  Alexandria, also called Paris, challenges Menelaus--Helen and
  Priam view the Achaeans from the wall--The covenant--Paris
  and Menelaus fight, and Paris is worsted--Venus carries him
  off to save him--Scene between him and Helen.
When the companies were thus arrayed, each under its own captain, the
Trojans advanced as a flight of wild fowl or cranes that scream
overhead when rain and winter drive them over the flowing waters of
Oceanus to bring death and destruction on the Pygmies, and they wrangle
in the air as they fly; but the Achaeans marched silently, in high
heart, and minded to stand by one another.
As when the south wind spreads a curtain of mist upon the mountain
tops, bad for shepherds but better than night for thieves, and a man
can see no further than he can throw a stone, even so rose the dust
from under their feet as they made all speed over the plain.
