I may observe by the way, in parenthesis, that Ivan Ossipovitch, our
dear mild governor, was rather like an old woman, though he was of good
family and highly connected--which explains the fact that he remained so
long among us, though he steadily avoided all the duties of his office.
From his munificence and hospitality he ought rather to have been a
marshal of nobility of the good old days than a governor in such busy
times as ours. It was always said in the town that it was not he, but
Varvara Petrovna who governed the province. Of course this was said
sarcastically; however, it was certainly a falsehood. And, indeed, much
wit was wasted on the subject among us. On the contrary, in later years,
Varvara Petrovna purposely and consciously withdrew from anything like
a position of authority, and, in spite of the extraordinary respect
in which she was held by the whole province, voluntarily confined her
influence within strict limits set up by herself. Instead of these
higher responsibilities she suddenly took up the management of her
estate, and, within two or three years, raised the revenue from it
almost to what it had yielded in the past. Giving up her former romantic
impulses (trips to Petersburg, plans for founding a magazine, and so
on) she began to be careful and to save money. She kept even Stepan
Trofimovitch at a distance, allowing him to take lodgings in another
house (a change for which he had long been worrying her under various
pretexts). Little by little Stepan Trofimovitch began to call her a
prosaic woman, or more jestingly, "My prosaic friend." I need hardly say
he only ventured on such jests in an extremely respectful form, and on
rare, and carefully chosen, occasions.
All of us in her intimate circle felt--Stepan Trofimovitch more acutely
than any of us--that her son had come to her almost, as it were, as a
new hope, and even as a sort of new aspiration. Her passion for her son
dated from the time of his successes in Petersburg society, and grew
more intense from the moment that he was degraded in the army. Yet she
was evidently afraid of him, and seemed like a slave in his presence.
It could be seen that she was afraid of something vague and mysterious
which she could not have put into words, and she often stole searching
glances at "Nicolas," scrutinising him reflectively... and behold--the
wild beast suddenly showed his claws.
II
Suddenly, apropos of nothing, our prince was guilty of incredible
outrages upon various persons and, what was most striking these outrages
were utterly unheard of, quite inconceivable, unlike anything commonly
done, utterly silly and mischievous, quite unprovoked and objectless.
One of the most respected of our club members, on our committee of
management, Pyotr Pavlovitch Gaganov, an elderly man of high rank in the
service, had formed the innocent habit of declaring vehemently on all
sorts of occasions: "No, you can't lead me by the nose!" Well, there
is no harm in that. But one day at the club, when he brought out this
phrase in connection with some heated discussion in the midst of a
little group of members (all persons of some consequence) Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch, who was standing on one side, alone and unnoticed,
suddenly went up to Pyotr Pavlovitch, took him unexpectedly and firmly
with two fingers by the nose, and succeeded in leading him two or three
steps across the room. He could have had no grudge against Mr. Gaganov.
It might be thought to be a mere schoolboy prank, though, of course, a
most unpardonable one. Yet, describing it afterwards, people said that
he looked almost dreamy at the very instant of the operation, "as though
he had gone out of his mind," but that was recalled and reflected upon
long afterwards. In the excitement of the moment all they recalled was
the minute after, when he certainly saw it all as it really was, and far
from being confused smiled gaily and maliciously "without the slightest
regret." There was a terrific outcry; he was surrounded. Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch kept turning round, looking about him, answering nobody,
and glancing curiously at the persons exclaiming around him. At last he
seemed suddenly, as it were, to sink into thought again--so at least it
was reported--frowned, went firmly up to the affronted Pyotr Pavlovitch,
and with evident vexation said in a rapid mutter:
