"It is a marvel that the poor brute can hold up the weight of the
rider," said John Harned. "And now that the horse fights the bull, what
weapons has it?"
"The horse does not fight the bull," said Luis Cervallos.
"Oh," said John Harned, "then is the horse there to be gored? That must
be why it is blindfolded, so that it shall not see the bull coming to
gore it."
"Not quite so," said I. "The lance of the picador is to keep the bull
from goring the horse."
"Then are horses rarely gored?" asked John Harned.
"No," said Luis Cervallos. "I have seen, at Seville, eighteen horses
killed in one day, and the people clamored for more horses."
"Were they blindfolded like this horse?" asked John Harned.
"Yes," said Luis Cervallos.
After that we talked no more, but watched the fight. And John Harned was
going mad all the time, and we did not know. The bull refused to charge
the horse. And the horse stood still, and because it could not see it
did not know that the capadors were trying to make the bull charge upon
it. The capadors teased the bull their capes, and when it charged them
they ran toward the horse and into their shelters. At last the bull was
angry, and it saw the horse before it.
"The horse does not know, the horse does not know," John Harned
whispered to himself, unaware that he voiced his thought aloud.
The bull charged, and of course the horse knew nothing till the picador
failed and the horse found himself impaled on the bull's horns from
beneath. The bull was magnificently strong. The sight of its strength
was splendid to see. It lifted the horse clear into the air; and as the
horse fell to its side on on the ground the picador landed on his feet
and escaped, while the capadors lured the bull away. The horse was
emptied of its essential organs. Yet did it rise to its feet screaming.
It was the scream of the horse that did it, that made John Harned
completely mad; for he, too, started to rise to his feet, I heard
him curse low and deep. He never took his eyes from the horse, which,
screaming, strove to run, but fell down instead and rolled on its back
so that all its four legs were kicking in the air. Then the bull charged
it and gored it again and again until it was dead.
John Harned was now on his feet. His eyes were no longer cold like
steel. They were blue flames. He looked at Maria Valenzuela, and she
looked at him, and in his face was a great loathing. The moment of his
madness was upon him. Everybody was looking, now that the horse was
dead; and John Harned was a large man and easy to be seen.
"Sit down," said Luis Cervallos, "or you will make a fool of yourself."
John Harned replied nothing. He struck out his fist. He smote Luis
Cervallos in the face so that he fell like a dead man across the chairs
and did not rise again. He saw nothing of what followed. But I saw much.
Urcisino Castillo, leaning forward from the next box, with his cane
struck John Harned full across the face. And John Harned smote him with
his fist so that in falling he overthrew General Salazar. John Harned
was now in what-you-call Berserker rage--no? The beast primitive in him
was loose and roaring--the beast primitive of the holes and caves of the
long ago.
