And those that dwelt in Lacedaemon, lying low among the hills, Pharis,
Sparta, with Messe the haunt of doves; Bryseae, Augeae, Amyclae, and
Helos upon the sea; Laas, moreover, and Oetylus; these were led by
Menelaus of the loud battle-cry, brother to Agamemnon, and of them
there were sixty ships, drawn up apart from the others. Among them went
Menelaus himself, strong in zeal, urging his men to fight; for he
longed to avenge the toil and sorrow that he had suffered for the sake
of Helen.
The men of Pylos and Arene, and Thryum where is the ford of the river
Alpheus; strong Aipy, Cyparisseis, and Amphigenea; Pteleum, Helos, and
Dorium, where the Muses met Thamyris, and stilled his minstrelsy for
ever. He was returning from Oechalia, where Eurytus lived and reigned,
and boasted that he would surpass even the Muses, daughters of
aegis-bearing Jove, if they should sing against him; whereon they were
angry, and maimed him. They robbed him of his divine power of song, and
thenceforth he could strike the lyre no more. These were commanded by
Nestor, knight of Gerene, and with him there came ninety ships.
And those that held Arcadia, under the high mountain of Cyllene, near
the tomb of Aepytus, where the people fight hand to hand; the men of
Pheneus also, and Orchomenus rich in flocks; of Rhipae, Stratie, and
bleak Enispe; of Tegea and fair Mantinea; of Stymphelus and Parrhasia;
of these King Agapenor son of Ancaeus was commander, and they had sixty
ships. Many Arcadians, good soldiers, came in each one of them, but
Agamemnon found them the ships in which to cross the sea, for they were
not a people that occupied their business upon the waters.
The men, moreover, of Buprasium and of Elis, so much of it as is
enclosed between Hyrmine, Myrsinus upon the sea-shore, the rock Olene
and Alesium. These had four leaders, and each of them had ten ships,
with many Epeans on board. Their captains were Amphimachus and
Thalpius--the one, son of Cteatus, and the other, of Eurytus--both of
the race of Actor. The two others were Diores, son of Amarynces, and
Polyxenus, son of King Agasthenes, son of Augeas.
And those of Dulichium with the sacred Echinean islands, who dwelt
beyond the sea off Elis; these were led by Meges, peer of Mars, and the
son of valiant Phyleus, dear to Jove, who quarrelled with his father,
and went to settle in Dulichium. With him there came forty ships.
Ulysses led the brave Cephallenians, who held Ithaca, Neritum with its
forests, Crocylea, rugged Aegilips, Samos and Zacynthus, with the
mainland also that was over against the islands. These were led by
Ulysses, peer of Jove in counsel, and with him there came twelve ships.
Thoas, son of Andraemon, commanded the Aetolians, who dwelt in Pleuron,
Olenus, Pylene, Chalcis by the sea, and rocky Calydon, for the great
king Oeneus had now no sons living, and was himself dead, as was also
golden-haired Meleager, who had been set over the Aetolians to be their
king. And with Thoas there came forty ships.
