On a summer afternoon, in the big library, he attended the first
session of his board of guardians. There were three of them, all
elderly, and successful, all legal, all business comrades of his
father. Dick's impression, as they explained things to him, was that,
although they meant well, he had no contacts with them. In his
judgment, their boyhood was too far behind them. Besides that, it was
patent that him, the particular boy they were so much concerned with,
they did not understand at all. Furthermore, in his own sure way he
decided that he was the one person in the world fitted to know what was
best for himself.
Mr. Crockett made a long speech, to which Dick listened with alert and
becoming attention, nodding his head whenever he was directly addressed
or appealed to. Messrs. Davidson and Slocum also had their say and were
treated with equal consideration. Among other things, Dick learned what
a sterling, upright man his father had been, and the program already
decided upon by the three gentlemen which would make him into a
sterling and upright man.
When they were quite done, Dick took it upon himself to say a few
things.
"I have thought it over," he announced, "and first of all I shall go
traveling."
"That will come afterward, my boy," Mr. Slocum explained soothingly.
"When--say--when you are ready to enter the university. At that time a
year abroad would be a very good thing... a very good thing indeed."
"Of course," Mr. Davidson volunteered quickly, having noted the annoyed
light in the lad's eyes and the unconscious firm-drawing and setting of
the lips, "of course, in the meantime you could do some traveling, a
limited amount of traveling, during your school vacations. I am sure my
fellow guardians will agree--under the proper management and
safeguarding, of course--that such bits of travel sandwiched between
your school-terms, would be advisable and beneficial."
"How much did you say I am worth?" Dick asked with apparent irrelevance.
"Twenty millions--at a most conservative estimate--that is about the
sum," Mr. Crockett answered promptly.
"Suppose I said right now that I wanted a hundred dollars!" Dick went
on.
"Why--er--ahem." Mr. Slocum looked about him for guidance.
"We would be compelled to ask what you wanted it for," answered Mr.
Crockett.
"And suppose," Dick said very slowly, looking Mr. Crockett squarely in
the eyes, "suppose I said that I was very sorry, but that I did not
care to say what I wanted it for?"
"Then you wouldn't get it," Mr. Crockett said so immediately that there
was a hint of testiness and snap in his manner.
Dick nodded slowly, as if letting the information sink in.
"But, of course, my boy," Mr. Slocum took up hastily, "you understand
you are too young to handle money yet. We must decide that for you."
"You mean I can't touch a penny without your permission?"
"Not a penny," Mr. Crockett snapped.
Dick nodded his head thoughtfully and murmured, "Oh, I see."
