"And then, Maurice?" interrupted my lady.
"She hopes to win Jasper, I think."
"Never! We must prevent that at all costs. I had rather see him dead
before me, than the husband of such a woman. Why is she permitted to
visit homes like mine? I should have been told this sooner," exclaimed
my lady angrily.
"I should have told you had I known it, and I reproved Jasper for his
neglect. Do not be needlessly troubled, Aunt. There is no blemish on
Mrs. Snowdon's name, and, as the wife of a brave and honorable man, she
is received without question; for beauty, grace, or tact like hers can
make their way anywhere. She stays but a week, and I will devote myself
to her; this will save Jasper, and, if necessary, convince Tavie of my
indifference--" Then he paused to stifle a sigh.
"But yourself, have you no fears for your own peace, Maurice? You must
not sacrifice happiness or honor, for me or mine."
"I am safe; I love my cousin, and that is my shield. Whatever happens
remember that I tried to serve you, and sincerely endeavored to
forget myself."
"God bless you, my son! Let me call you so, and feel that, though I deny
you my daughter, I give you heartily a mother's care and affection."
Lady Treherne was as generous as she was proud, and her nephew had
conquered her by confidence and submission. He acted no part, yet, even
in relinquishing all, he cherished a hope that he might yet win the
heart he coveted. Silently they parted, but from that hour a new and
closer bond existed between the two, and exerted an unsuspected
influence over the whole household.
       *       *       *       *       *
Maurice waited with some impatience for Mrs. Snowdon's entrance, not
only because of his curiosity to see if she had discovered the thief,
but because of the part he had taken upon himself to play. He was equal
to it, and felt a certain pleasure in it for a threefold reason. It
would serve his aunt and cousin, would divert his mind from its own
cares, and, perhaps by making Octavia jealous, waken love; for, though
he had chosen the right, he was but a man, and moreover a lover.
Mrs. Snowdon was late. She always was, for her toilet was elaborate, and
she liked to enjoy its effects upon others. The moment she entered
Treherne's eye was on her, and to his intense surprise and annoyance she
addressed Octavia, saying blandly, "My dear Miss Treherne, I've been
admiring your peacocks. Pray let me see you feed them tomorrow. Miss
Talbot says it is a charming sight."
"If you are on the terrace just after lunch, you will find them there,
and may feed them yourself, if you like" was the cool, civil reply.
"She looks like a peacock herself in that splendid green and gold dress,
doesn't she?" whispered Rose to Sir Jasper, with a wicked laugh.
