"And duly witnessed, as by law required," said Snitchey, pushing away
his plate, and taking out the papers, which his partner proceeded to
spread upon the table; "and Self and Craggs having been co-trustees with
you, Doctor, in so far as the fund was concerned, we shall want your two
servants to attest the signatures--can you read, Mrs. Newcome?"
"I a'n't married, Mister," said Clemency.
"Oh, I beg your pardon. I should think not," chuckled Snitchey, casting
his eyes over her extraordinary figure. "You _can_ read?"
"A little," answered Clemency.
"The marriage service, night and morning, eh?" observed the lawyer,
jocosely.
"No," said Clemency. "Too hard. I only reads a thimble."
"Read a thimble!" echoed Snitchey. "What are you talking about, young
woman?"
Clemency nodded. "And a nutmeg-grater."
"Why, this is a lunatic! a subject for the Lord High Chancellor!" said
Snitchey, staring at her.
"If possessed of any property," stipulated Craggs.
Grace, however, interposing, explained that each of the articles in
question bore an engraved motto, and so formed the pocket library of
Clemency Newcome, who was not much given to the study of books.
"Oh, that's it, is it, Miss Grace!" said Snitchey. "Yes, yes. Ha, ha,
ha! I thought our friend was an idiot. She looks uncommonly like it," he
muttered, with a supercilious glance. "And what does the thimble say,
Mrs. Newcome?"
"I a'n't married, Mister," observed Clemency.
"Well, Newcome. Will that do?" said the lawyer. "What does the thimble
say, Newcome?"
How Clemency, before replying to this question, held one pocket open,
and looked down into its yawning depths for the thimble which wasn't
there,--and how she then held an opposite pocket open, and seeming to
descry it, like a pearl of great price, at the bottom, cleared away such
intervening obstacles as a handkerchief, an end of wax candle, a flushed
apple, an orange, a lucky penny, a cramp bone, a padlock, a pair of
scissors in a sheath, more expressively describable as promising young
shears, a handful or so of loose beads, several balls of cotton, a
needle-case, a cabinet collection of curl-papers, and a biscuit, all of
which articles she entrusted individually and severally to Britain to
hold,--is of no consequence. Nor how, in her determination to grasp this
pocket by the throat and keep it prisoner (for it had a tendency to
swing and twist itself round the nearest corner), she assumed, and
calmly maintained, an attitude apparently inconsistent with the
human anatomy and the laws of gravity. It is enough that at last she
triumphantly produced the thimble on her finger, and rattled the
nutmeg-grater; the literature of both those trinkets being obviously in
course of wearing out and wasting away, through excessive friction.
"That's the thimble, is it, young woman?" said Mr. Snitchey, diverting
himself at her expense. "And what does the thimble say?"
"It says," replied Clemency, reading slowly round it as if it were a
tower, "For-get and for-give."
Snitchey and Craggs laughed heartily. "So new!" said Snitchey. "So
easy!" said Craggs. "Such a knowledge of human nature in it," said
Snitchey. "So applicable to the affairs of life," said Craggs.
