"'Peace!' I answered, 'thou art weak of understanding and a fool.
Walk softly and wait, and we will grasp it all.  But grasp now, and
we grasp little, and in the end it will be nothing.  Thou art a
child in the way of the white man's wisdom.  Hold thy tongue and
watch, and I will show you the way my brothers do overseas, and, so
doing, gather to themselves the riches of the earth.  It is what is
called "business," and what dost thou know about business?'
"But the next day he came in breathless.  'O master, a strange
thing happeneth in the igloo of Neewak, the shaman; wherefore we
are lost, and we have neither worn the warm furs nor tasted the
good tobacco, what of your madness for the molasses and flour.  Go
thou and witness whilst I watch by the brew.'
"So I went to the igloo of Neewak.  And behold, he had made his own
still, fashioned cunningly after mine.  And as he beheld me he
could ill conceal his triumph.  For he was a man of parts, and his
sleep with the gods when in my igloo had not been sound.
"But I was not disturbed, for I knew what I knew, and when I
returned to my own igloo, I descanted to Moosu, and said:  'Happily
the property right obtains amongst this people, who otherwise have
been blessed with but few of the institutions of men.  And because
of this respect for property shall you and I wax fat, and, further,
we shall introduce amongst them new institutions that other peoples
have worked out through great travail and suffering.'
"But Moosu understood dimly, till the shaman came forth, with eyes
flashing and a threatening note in his voice, and demanded to trade
with me.  'For look you,' he cried, 'there be of flour and molasses
none in all the village.  The like have you gathered with a shrewd
hand from my people, who have slept with your gods and who now have
nothing save large heads, and weak knees, and a thirst for cold
water that they cannot quench.  This is not good, and my voice has
power among them; so it were well that we trade, you and I, even as
you have traded with them, for molasses and flour.'
"And I made answer:  'This be good talk, and wisdom abideth in thy
mouth.  We will trade.  For this much of flour and molasses givest
thou me the caddy of "Star" and the two buckets of smoking.'
"And Moosu groaned, and when the trade was made and the shaman
departed, he upbraided me:  'Now, because of thy madness are we,
indeed, lost!  Neewak maketh hooch on his own account, and when the
time is ripe, he will command the people to drink of no hooch but
his hooch.  And in this way are we undone, and our goods worthless,
and our igloo mean, and the bed of Moosu cold and empty!'
"And I answered:  'By the body of the wolf, say I, thou art a fool,
and thy father before thee, and thy children after thee, down to
the last generation.  Thy wisdom is worse than no wisdom and thine
eyes blinded to business, of which I have spoken and whereof thou
knowest nothing.  Go, thou son of a thousand fools, and drink of
the hooch that Neewak brews in his igloo, and thank thy gods that
thou hast a white man's wisdom to make soft the bed thou liest in.
Go! and when thou hast drunken, return with the taste still on thy
lips, that I may know.'
