"What? The money that you gave me to lose? I told you I should never
win for other people--least of all for you. I obeyed you simply because
you ordered me to; but you must not blame me for the result. I warned
you that no good would ever come of it. You seem much depressed at
having lost your money. Why do you need it so greatly?"
"Why do YOU ask me these questions?"
"Because you promised to explain matters to me. Listen. I am certain
that, as soon as ever I 'begin to play for myself' (and I still have
120 gulden left), I shall win. You can then take of me what you
require."
She made a contemptuous grimace.
"You must not be angry with me," I continued, "for making such a
proposal. I am so conscious of being only a nonentity in your eyes that
you need not mind accepting money from me. A gift from me could not
possibly offend you. Moreover, it was I who lost your gulden."
She glanced at me, but, seeing that I was in an irritable, sarcastic
mood, changed the subject.
"My affairs cannot possibly interest you," she said. "Still, if you DO
wish to know, I am in debt. I borrowed some money, and must pay it back
again. I have a curious, senseless idea that I am bound to win at the
gaming-tables. Why I think so I cannot tell, but I do think so, and
with some assurance. Perhaps it is because of that assurance that I now
find myself without any other resource."
"Or perhaps it is because it is so NECESSARY for you to win. It is like
a drowning man catching at a straw. You yourself will agree that,
unless he were drowning he would not mistake a straw for the trunk of a
tree."
Polina looked surprised.
"What?" she said. "Do not you also hope something from it? Did you not
tell me again and again, two weeks ago, that you were certain of
winning at roulette if you played here? And did you not ask me not to
consider you a fool for doing so? Were you joking? You cannot have
been, for I remember that you spoke with a gravity which forbade the
idea of your jesting."
"True," I replied gloomily. "I always felt certain that I should win.
Indeed, what you say makes me ask myself--Why have my absurd, senseless
losses of today raised a doubt in my mind? Yet I am still positive
that, so soon as ever I begin to play for myself, I shall infallibly
win."
"And why are you so certain?"
"To tell the truth, I do not know. I only know that I must win--that it
is the one resource I have left. Yes, why do I feel so assured on the
point?"
"Perhaps because one cannot help winning if one is fanatically certain
of doing so."
"Yet I dare wager that you do not think me capable of serious feeling
in the matter?"
