‘The steps to-day, my Pet,’ said Trotty.  ‘Steps in dry weather.  Post in
wet.  There’s a greater conveniency in the steps at all times, because of
the sitting down; but they’re rheumatic in the damp.’
‘Then here,’ said Meg, clapping her hands, after a moment’s bustle; ‘here
it is, all ready!  And beautiful it looks!  Come, father.  Come!’
Since his discovery of the contents of the basket, Trotty had been
standing looking at her—and had been speaking too—in an abstracted
manner, which showed that though she was the object of his thoughts and
eyes, to the exclusion even of tripe, he neither saw nor thought about
her as she was at that moment, but had before him some imaginary rough
sketch or drama of her future life.  Roused, now, by her cheerful
summons, he shook off a melancholy shake of the head which was just
coming upon him, and trotted to her side.  As he was stooping to sit
down, the Chimes rang.
‘Amen!’ said Trotty, pulling off his hat and looking up towards them.
‘Amen to the Bells, father?’ cried Meg.
‘They broke in like a grace, my dear,’ said Trotty, taking his seat.
‘They’d say a good one, I am sure, if they could.  Many’s the kind thing
they say to me.’
‘The Bells do, father!’ laughed Meg, as she set the basin, and a knife
and fork, before him.  ‘Well!’
‘Seem to, my Pet,’ said Trotty, falling to with great vigour.  ‘And
where’s the difference?  If I hear ’em, what does it matter whether they
speak it or not?  Why bless you, my dear,’ said Toby, pointing at the
tower with his fork, and becoming more animated under the influence of
dinner, ‘how often have I heard them bells say, “Toby Veck, Toby Veck,
keep a good heart, Toby!  Toby Veck, Toby Veck, keep a good heart, Toby!”
A million times?  More!’
‘Well, I never!’ cried Meg.
She had, though—over and over again.  For it was Toby’s constant topic.
‘When things is very bad,’ said Trotty; ‘very bad indeed, I mean; almost
at the worst; then it’s “Toby Veck, Toby Veck, job coming soon, Toby!
Toby Veck, Toby Veck, job coming soon, Toby!”  That way.’
‘And it comes—at last, father,’ said Meg, with a touch of sadness in her
pleasant voice.
‘Always,’ answered the unconscious Toby.  ‘Never fails.’
While this discourse was holding, Trotty made no pause in his attack upon
the savoury meat before him, but cut and ate, and cut and drank, and cut
and chewed, and dodged about, from tripe to hot potato, and from hot
potato back again to tripe, with an unctuous and unflagging relish.  But
happening now to look all round the street—in case anybody should be
beckoning from any door or window, for a porter—his eyes, in coming back
again, encountered Meg: sitting opposite to him, with her arms folded and
only busy in watching his progress with a smile of happiness.
‘Why, Lord forgive me!’ said Trotty, dropping his knife and fork.  ‘My
dove!  Meg! why didn’t you tell me what a beast I was?’
