We have said that we think this second "Life of Sterling" justified by
the first; but were it not so, the book would justify itself.
II.  WOMAN IN FRANCE: MADAME DE SABLE. {31}
In 1847, a certain Count Leopold Ferri died at Padua, leaving a library
entirely composed of works written by women, in various languages, and
this library amounted to nearly 32,000 volumes.  We will not hazard any
conjecture as to the proportion of these volumes which a severe judge,
like the priest in Don Quixote, would deliver to the flames, but for our
own part, most of these we should care to rescue would be the works of
French women.  With a few remarkable exceptions, our own feminine
literature is made up of books which could have been better written by
men--books which have the same relation to literature is general, as
academic prize poems have to poetry: when not a feeble imitation, they
are usually an absurd exaggeration of the masculine style, like the
swaggering gait of a bad actress in male attire.  Few English women have
written so much like a woman as Richardson's Lady G.  Now we think it an
immense mistake to maintain that there is no sex in literature.  Science
has no sex: the mere knowing and reasoning faculties, if they act
correctly, must go through the same process, and arrive at the same
result.  But in art and literature, which imply the action of the entire
being, in which every fibre of the nature is engaged, in which every
peculiar modification of the individual makes itself felt, woman has
something specific to contribute.  Under every imaginable social
condition, she will necessarily have a class of sensations and
emotions--the maternal ones--which must remain unknown to man; and the
fact of her comparative physical weakness, which, however it may have
been exaggerated by a vicious civilization, can never be cancelled,
introduces a distinctively feminine condition into the wondrous chemistry
of the affections and sentiments, which inevitably gives rise to
distinctive forms and combinations.  A certain amount of psychological
difference between man and woman necessarily arises out of the difference
of sex, and instead of being destined to vanish before a complete
development of woman's intellectual and moral nature, will be a permanent
source of variety and beauty as long as the tender light and dewy
freshness of morning affect us differently from the strength and
brilliancy of the midday sun.  And those delightful women of France, who
from the beginning of the seventeenth to the close of the eighteenth
century, formed some of the brightest threads in the web of political and
literary history, wrote under circumstances which left the feminine
character of their minds uncramped by timidity, and unstrained by
mistaken effort.  They were not trying to make a career for themselves;
they thought little, in many cases not at all, of the public; they wrote
letters to their lovers and friends, memoirs of their every-day lives,
romances in which they gave portraits of their familiar acquaintances,
and described the tragedy or comedy which was going on before their eyes.
Always refined and graceful, often witty, sometimes judicious, they wrote
what they saw, thought, and felt in their habitual language, without
proposing any model to themselves, without any intention to prove that
women could write as well as men, without affecting manly views or
suppressing womanly ones.  One may say, at least with regard to the women
of the seventeenth century, that their writings were but a charming
accident of their more charming lives, like the petals which the wind
shakes from the rose in its bloom.  And it is but a twin fact with this,
that in France alone woman has had a vital influence on the development
of literature; in France alone the mind of woman has passed like an
electric current through the language, making crisp and definite what is
elsewhere heavy and blurred; in France alone, if the writings of women
were swept away, a serious gap would be made in the national history.
