Her dark eyes filled as the last word left her lips, and the beauty of a
touched heart shone in her face. Maurice looked up quickly, asking with
sudden earnestness, "Do you see it? Then it is true. Yes, I _am_
changed, thank God! And she has done it."
"Who?" demanded his companion jealously.
"Octavia. Unconsciously, yet surely, she has done much for me, and this
year of seeming loss and misery has been the happiest, most profitable
of my life. I have often heard that afflictions were the best teachers,
and I believe it now."
Mrs. Snowdon shook her head sadly.
"Not always; they are tormentors to some. But don't preach, Maurice. I
am still a sinner, though you incline to sainthood, and I have one
question more to ask. What was it that took you and Jasper so suddenly
away from Paris?"
"That I can never tell you."
"I shall discover it for myself, then."
"It is impossible."
"Nothing is impossible to a determined woman."
"You can neither wring, surprise, nor bribe this secret from the two
persons who hold it. I beg of you to let it rest," said Treherne
earnestly.
"I have a clue, and I shall follow it; for I am convinced that something
is wrong, and you are--"
"Dear Mrs. Snowdon, are you so charmed with the birds that you forget
your fellow-beings, or so charmed with one fellow-being that you forget
the birds?"
As the sudden question startled both, Rose Talbot came along the
terrace, with hands full of holly and a face full of merry mischief,
adding as she vanished, "I shall tell Tavie that feeding the
peacocks is such congenial amusement for lovers, she and Mr. Annon
had better try it."
"Saucy gypsy!" muttered Treherne.
But Mrs. Snowdon said, with a smile of double meaning, "Many a true word
is spoken in jest."
Chapter V
UNDER THE MISTLETOE
Unusually gay and charming the three young friends looked, dressed
alike in fleecy white with holly wreaths in their hair, as they
slowly descended the wide oaken stairway arm in arm. A footman was
lighting the hall lamps, for the winter dusk gathered early, and the
girls were merrily chatting about the evening's festivity when
suddenly a loud, long shriek echoed through the hall. A heavy glass
shade fell from the man's hand with a crash, and the young ladies
clung to one another aghast, for mortal terror was in the cry, and a
dead silence followed it.
"What was it, John?" demanded Octavia, very pale, but steady in a
moment.
"I'll go and see, miss." And the man hurried away.
"Where did the dreadful scream come from?" asked Rose, collecting her
wits as rapidly as possible.
"Above us somewhere. Oh, let us go down among people; I am frightened to
death," whispered Blanche, trembling and faint.
Hurrying into the parlor, they found only Annon and the major, both
looking startled, and both staring out of the windows.
"Did you hear it? What could it be? Don't go and leave us!" cried the
girls in a breath, as they rushed in.
