At length he said, “I’ll light you, sir, if you’ll follow me.”
“No,” replied the Chemist, “I don’t wish to be attended, or announced to
him.  He does not expect me.  I would rather go alone.  Please to give me
the light, if you can spare it, and I’ll find the way.”
In the quickness of his expression of this desire, and in taking the
candle from the newsman, he touched him on the breast.  Withdrawing his
hand hastily, almost as though he had wounded him by accident (for he did
not know in what part of himself his new power resided, or how it was
communicated, or how the manner of its reception varied in different
persons), he turned and ascended the stair.
But when he reached the top, he stopped and looked down.  The wife was
standing in the same place, twisting her ring round and round upon her
finger.  The husband, with his head bent forward on his breast, was
musing heavily and sullenly.  The children, still clustering about the
mother, gazed timidly after the visitor, and nestled together when they
saw him looking down.
“Come!” said the father, roughly.  “There’s enough of this.  Get to bed
here!”
“The place is inconvenient and small enough,” the mother added, “without
you.  Get to bed!”
The whole brood, scared and sad, crept away; little Johnny and the baby
lagging last.  The mother, glancing contemptuously round the sordid room,
and tossing from her the fragments of their meal, stopped on the
threshold of her task of clearing the table, and sat down, pondering idly
and dejectedly.  The father betook himself to the chimney-corner, and
impatiently raking the small fire together, bent over it as if he would
monopolise it all.  They did not interchange a word.
The Chemist, paler than before, stole upward like a thief; looking back
upon the change below, and dreading equally to go on or return.
“What have I done!” he said, confusedly.  “What am I going to do!”
“To be the benefactor of mankind,” he thought he heard a voice reply.
He looked round, but there was nothing there; and a passage now shutting
out the little parlour from his view, he went on, directing his eyes
before him at the way he went.
“It is only since last night,” he muttered gloomily, “that I have
remained shut up, and yet all things are strange to me.  I am strange to
myself.  I am here, as in a dream.  What interest have I in this place,
or in any place that I can bring to my remembrance?  My mind is going
blind!”
There was a door before him, and he knocked at it.  Being invited, by a
voice within, to enter, he complied.
“Is that my kind nurse?” said the voice.  “But I need not ask her.  There
is no one else to come here.”
It spoke cheerfully, though in a languid tone, and attracted his
attention to a young man lying on a couch, drawn before the
chimney-piece, with the back towards the door.  A meagre scanty stove,
pinched and hollowed like a sick man’s cheeks, and bricked into the
centre of a hearth that it could scarcely warm, contained the fire, to
which his face was turned.  Being so near the windy house-top, it wasted
quickly, and with a busy sound, and the burning ashes dropped down fast.
