He caught a faint hint of withdrawal in her tone. "I have always
understood that Mr. Truscomb did everything----"
Amherst flushed; but he was beyond caring for the personal rebuff. "Do
you leave it to your little girl's nurses to do everything for her?" he
asked.
Her surprise seemed about to verge on annoyance: he saw the preliminary
ruffling of the woman who is put to the trouble of defending her
dignity. "Really, I don't see--" she began with distant politeness; then
her face changed and melted, and again her blood spoke for her before
her lips.
"I am glad you told me that, Mr. Amherst. Of course I want to do
whatever I can. I should like you to point out everything----"
Amherst's resolve had been taken while she spoke. He _would_ point out
everything, would stretch his opportunity to its limit. All thoughts of
personal prudence were flung to the winds--her blush and tone had routed
the waiting policy. He would declare war on Truscomb at once, and take
the chance of dismissal. At least, before he went he would have brought
this exquisite creature face to face with the wrongs from which her
luxuries were drawn, and set in motion the regenerating impulses of
indignation and pity. He did not stop to weigh the permanent advantage
of this course. His only feeling was that the chance would never again
be given him--that if he let her go away, back to her usual life, with
eyes unopened and heart untouched, there would be no hope of her ever
returning. It was far better that he should leave for good, and that she
should come back, as come back she must, more and more often, if once
she could be made to feel the crying need of her presence.
But where was he to begin? How give her even a glimpse of the packed and
intricate situation?
"Mrs. Westmore," he said, "there's no time to say much now, but before
we get to the mills I want to ask you a favour. If, as you go through
them, you see anything that seems to need explaining, will you let me
come and tell you about it tonight? I say tonight," he added, meeting
her look of enquiry, "because later--tomorrow even--I might not have the
chance. There are some things--a good many--in the management of the
mills that Mr. Truscomb doesn't see as I do. I don't mean business
questions: wages and dividends and so on--those are out of my province.
I speak merely in the line of my own work--my care of the hands, and
what I believe they need and don't get under the present system.
Naturally, if Mr. Truscomb were well, I shouldn't have had this chance
of putting the case to you; but since it's come my way, I must seize it
and take the consequences."
Even as he spoke, by a swift reaction of thought, those consequences
rose before him in all their seriousness. It was not only, or chiefly,
that he feared to lose his place; though he knew his mother had not
spoken lightly in instancing the case of the foreman whom Truscomb, to
gratify a personal spite, had for months kept out of a job in his trade.
And there were special reasons why Amherst should heed her warning. In
adopting a manual trade, instead of one of the gentlemanly professions
which the men of her family had always followed, he had not only
disappointed her hopes, and to a great extent thrown away the benefits
of the education she had pinched herself to give him, but had disturbed
all the habits of her life by removing her from her normal surroundings
to the depressing exile of a factory-settlement. However much he blamed
himself for exacting this sacrifice, it had been made so cheerfully that
the consciousness of it never clouded his life with his mother; but her
self-effacement made him the more alive to his own obligations, and
having placed her in a difficult situation he had always been careful
not to increase its difficulties by any imprudence in his conduct toward
his employers. Yet, grave as these considerations were, they were really
less potent than his personal desire to remain at Westmore. Lightly as
he had just resolved to risk the chance of dismissal, all his future was
bound up in the hope of retaining his place. His heart was in the work
at Westmore, and the fear of not being able to get other employment was
a small factor in his intense desire to keep his post. What he really
wanted was to speak out, and yet escape the consequences: by some
miraculous reversal of probability to retain his position and yet effect
Truscomb's removal. The idea was so fantastic that he felt it merely as
a quickening of all his activities, a tremendous pressure of will along
undetermined lines. He had no wish to take the manager's place; but his
dream was to see Truscomb superseded by a man of the new school, in
sympathy with the awakening social movement--a man sufficiently
practical to "run" the mills successfully, yet imaginative enough to
regard that task as the least of his duties. He saw the promise of such
a man in Louis Duplain, the overseer who boarded with Mrs. Amherst: a
young fellow of Alsatian extraction, a mill-hand from childhood, who had
worked at his trade in Europe as well as in America, and who united with
more manual skill, and a greater nearness to the workman's standpoint,
all Amherst's enthusiasm for the experiments in social betterment that
were making in some of the English and continental factories. His
strongest wish was to see such a man as Duplain in control at Westmore
before he himself turned to the larger work which he had begun to see
before him as the sequel to his factory-training.
