She had the gift of rapid definition, and his questions as to the life
she had led with the Farlows, during the interregnum between the Hoke
and Murrett eras, called up before him a queer little corner of Parisian
existence. The Farlows themselves--he a painter, she a "magazine
writer"--rose before him in all their incorruptible simplicity: an
elderly New England couple, with vague yearnings for enfranchisement,
who lived in Paris as if it were a Massachusetts suburb, and dwelt
hopefully on the "higher side" of the Gallic nature. With equal
vividness she set before him the component figures of the circle from
which Mrs. Farlow drew the "Inner Glimpses of French Life" appearing
over her name in a leading New England journal: the Roumanian lady who
had sent them tickets for her tragedy, an elderly French gentleman
who, on the strength of a week's stay at Folkestone, translated English
fiction for the provincial press, a lady from Wichita, Kansas, who
advocated free love and the abolition of the corset, a clergyman's
widow from Torquay who had written an "English Ladies' Guide to Foreign
Galleries" and a Russian sculptor who lived on nuts and was "almost
certainly" an anarchist. It was this nucleus, and its outer ring
of musical, architectural and other American students, which posed
successively to Mrs. Farlow's versatile fancy as a centre of "University
Life", a "Salon of the Faubourg St. Germain", a group of Parisian
"Intellectuals" or a "Cross-section of Montmartre"; but even her faculty
for extracting from it the most varied literary effects had not sufficed
to create a permanent demand for the "Inner Glimpses", and there
were days when--Mr. Farlow's landscapes being equally unmarketable--a
temporary withdrawal to the country (subsequently utilized as "Peeps
into Chateau Life") became necessary to the courageous couple.
Five years of Mrs. Murrett's world, while increasing Sophy's tenderness
for the Farlows, had left her with few illusions as to their power of
advancing her fortunes; and she did not conceal from Darrow that
her theatrical projects were of the vaguest. They hung mainly on the
problematical good-will of an ancient comedienne, with whom Mrs. Farlow
had a slight acquaintance (extensively utilized in "Stars of the French
Footlights" and "Behind the Scenes at the Francais"), and who had once,
with signs of approval, heard Miss Viner recite the Nuit de Mai.
"But of course I know how much that's worth," the girl broke off, with
one of her flashes of shrewdness. "And besides, it isn't likely that a
poor old fossil like Mme. Dolle could get anybody to listen to her now,
even if she really thought I had talent. But she might introduce me to
people; or at least give me a few tips. If I could manage to earn enough
to pay for lessons I'd go straight to some of the big people and work
with them. I'm rather hoping the Farlows may find me a chance of that
kind--an engagement with some American family in Paris who would want to
be 'gone round' with like the Hokes, and who'd leave me time enough to
study."
