_"The peasant with his axe is coming,_
_Something terrible will happen."_
Something of that sort, I don't remember the exact words. Varvara
Petrovna overheard him on one occasion, and crying, "Nonsense,
nonsense!" she went out of the room in a rage. Liputin, who happened to
be present, observed malignantly to Stepan Trofimovitch:
"It'll be a pity if their former serfs really do some mischief to
_messieurs les_ landowners to celebrate the occasion," and he drew his
forefinger round his throat.
"_Cher ami,_" Stepan Trofimovitch observed, "believe me that--this (he
repeated the gesture) will never be of any use to our landowners nor to
any of us in general. We shall never be capable of organising anything
even without our heads, though our heads hinder our understanding more
than anything."
I may observe that many people among us anticipated that something
extraordinary, such as Liputin predicted, would take place on the day
of the emancipation, and those who held this view were the so-called
"authorities" on the peasantry and the government. I believe Stepan
Trofimovitch shared this idea, so much so that almost on the eve of the
great day he began asking Varvara Petrovna's leave to go abroad; in fact
he began to be uneasy. But the great day passed, and some time
passed after it, and the condescending smile reappeared on Stepan
Trofimovitch's lips. In our presence he delivered himself of some
noteworthy thoughts on the character of the Russian in general, and the
Russian peasant in particular.
"Like hasty people we have been in too great a hurry with our peasants,"
he said in conclusion of a series of remarkable utterances. "We have
made them the fashion, and a whole section of writers have for several
years treated them as though they were newly discovered curiosities. We
have put laurel-wreaths on lousy heads. The Russian village has given us
only 'Kamarinsky' in a thousand years. A remarkable Russian poet who was
also something of a wit, seeing the great Rachel on the stage for the
first time cried in ecstasy, 'I wouldn't exchange Rachel for a peasant!'
I am prepared to go further. I would give all the peasants in Russia
for one Rachel. It's high time to look things in the face more
soberly, and not to mix up our national rustic pitch with _bouquet de
l'Imperatrice._"
Liputin agreed at once, but remarked that one had to perjure oneself and
praise the peasant all the same for the sake of being progressive, that
even ladies in good society shed tears reading "Poor Anton," and that
some of them even wrote from Paris to their bailiffs that they were,
henceforward, to treat the peasants as humanely as possible.
It happened, and as ill-luck would have it just after the rumours of the
Anton Petrov affair had reached us, that there was some disturbance
in our province too, only about ten miles from Skvoreshniki, so that a
detachment of soldiers was sent down in a hurry.
This time Stepan Trofimovitch was so much upset that he even frightened
us. He cried out at the club that more troops were needed, that they
ought to be telegraphed for from another province; he rushed off to the
governor to protest that he had no hand in it, begged him not to allow
his name on account of old associations to be brought into it, and
offered to write about his protest to the proper quarter in Petersburg.
Fortunately it all passed over quickly and ended in nothing, but I was
surprised at Stepan Trofimovitch at the time.
