At last the shells ceased.  This, he reasoned, was because the soldiers
were drawing near.  They crept along the trail in single file, and he
tried to count them until he lost track.  At any rate, there were a
hundred or so of them--all come after Koolau the leper.  He felt a
fleeting prod of pride.  With war guns and rifles, police and soldiers,
they came for him, and he was only one man, a crippled wreck of a man at
that.  They offered a thousand dollars for him, dead or alive.  In all
his life he had never possessed that much money.  The thought was a
bitter one.  Kapahei had been right.  He, Koolau, had done no wrong.
Because the _haoles_ wanted labour with which to work the stolen land,
they had brought in the Chinese coolies, and with them had come the
sickness.  And now, because he had caught the sickness, he was worth a
thousand dollars--but not to himself.  It was his worthless carcass,
rotten with disease or dead from a bursting shell, that was worth all
that money.
When the soldiers reached the knife-edged passage, he was prompted to
warn them.  But his gaze fell upon the body of the murdered maid, and he
kept silent.  When six had ventured on the knife-edge, he opened fire.
Nor did he cease when the knife-edge was bare.  He emptied his magazine,
reloaded, and emptied it again.  He kept on shooting.  All his wrongs
were blazing in his brain, and he was in a fury of vengeance.  All down
the goat-trail the soldiers were firing, and though they lay flat and
sought to shelter themselves in the shallow inequalities of the surface,
they were exposed marks to him.  Bullets whistled and thudded about him,
and an occasional ricochet sang sharply through the air.  One bullet
ploughed a crease through his scalp, and a second burned across his
shoulder-blade without breaking the skin.
It was a massacre, in which one man did the killing.  The soldiers began
to retreat, helping along their wounded.  As Koolau picked them off he
became aware of the smell of burnt meat.  He glanced about him at first,
and then discovered that it was his own hands.  The heat of the rifle was
doing it.  The leprosy had destroyed most of the nerves in his hands.
Though his flesh burned and he smelled it, there was no sensation.
He lay in the thicket, smiling, until he remembered the war guns.  Without
doubt they would open upon him again, and this time upon the very thicket
from which he had inflicted the danger.  Scarcely had he changed his
position to a nook behind a small shoulder of the wall where he had noted
that no shells fell, than the bombardment recommenced.  He counted the
shells.  Sixty more were thrown into the gorge before the war-guns
ceased.  The tiny area was pitted with their explosions, until it seemed
impossible that any creature could have survived.  So the soldiers
thought, for, under the burning afternoon sun, they climbed the
goat-trail again.  And again the knife-edged passage was disputed, and
again they fell back to the beach.
