It was all one; neither the priest nor any one else could prevail with
him, but that I was not his servant but his slave, that he took me in
the Algerine, and that I was a Turk, only pretended to be an English boy
to get my liberty, and he would carry me to the Inquisition as a Turk.
This frighted me out of my wits, for I had nobody to vouch for me what I
was, or from whence I came; but the good Padre Antonio, for that was his
name, cleared me of that part by a way I did not understand; for he came
to me one morning with two sailors, and told me they must search me, to
bear witness that I was not a Turk. I was amazed at them, and frighted,
and did not understand them, nor could I imagine what they intended to
do to me. However, stripping me, they were soon satisfied, and Father
Antony bade me be easy, for they could all witness that I was no Turk.
So I escaped that part of my master's cruelty.
And now I resolved from that time to run away from him if I could, but
there was no doing of it there, for there were not ships of any nation
in the world in that port, except two or three Persian vessels from
Ormus, so that if I had offered to go away from him, he would have had
me seized on shore, and brought on board by force; so that I had no
remedy but patience. And this he brought to an end too as soon as he
could, for after this he began to use me ill, and not only to straiten
my provisions, but to beat and torture me in a barbarous manner for
every trifle, so that, in a word, my life began to be very miserable.
The violence of this usage of me, and the impossibility of my escape
from his hands, set my head a-working upon all sorts of mischief, and in
particular I resolved, after studying all other ways to deliver myself,
and finding all ineffectual, I say, I resolved to murder him. With this
hellish resolution in my head, I spent whole nights and days contriving
how to put it in execution, the devil prompting me very warmly to the
fact. I was indeed entirely at a loss for the means, for I had neither
gun or sword, nor any weapon to assault him with; poison I had my
thoughts much upon, but knew not where to get any; or, if I might have
got it, I did not know the country word for it, or by what name to ask
for it.
In this manner I quitted the fact, intentionally, a hundred and a
hundred times; but Providence, either for his sake or for mine, always
frustrated my designs, and I could never bring it to pass; so I was
obliged to continue in his chains till the ship, having taken in her
loading, set sail for Portugal.
