  ORNULF. That is soon done. Kare the Peasant was plotting evil
against you; with other caitiffs he fared southward after Egil.
  GUNNAR. Kare! (To himself.) Ha, now I understand Thorolf's words!
  ORNULF. His purpose came to my ears; I needs must thwart so black
a deed. I would not give atonement for Jokul, and, had things so
befallen, I had willingly slain thee, Gunnar, in single combat--yet
I could not but protect thy child. With my sons, I hasted after Kare.
  SIGURD (softly). An accursed deed has here been done.
  ORNULF. When I came up with him, Egil's guards lay bound; thy son
was already in thy foemen's hand, and they would not long have spared
him. Hot was the fight! Seldom have I given and taken keener strokes;
Kare and two men fled inland; the rest sleep safely, and will be hard
to waken.
  GUNNAR (in eager suspense). But thou--thou, Ornulf----?
  ORNULF (gloomily). Six sons followed me into the fight.
  GUNNAR (breathlessly). But homewards----?
  ORNULF. None.
  GUNNAR (appalled). None! (Softly.) And Thorolf, Thorolf!
    (Deep emotion among the bystanders. HIORDIS shows signs of a
      violent mental struggle; DAGNY weeps silently by the high-seat
      on the right. SIGURD stands beside her, painfully agitated.)
  ORNULF (after a short pause). It is hard for a many-branching pine
to be stripped in a single storm. But men die and men live;--I will
drink to my sons' memory. (One of SIGURD'S men hands him a horn.)
Hail to you where now ye ride, my bold sons! Close upon your heels
shall the copper-gates not clang, for ye come to the hall with a
great following. (Drinks, and hands back the horn.) And now home
to Iceland! Ornulf has fought his last fight; the old tree has but
one green branch left, and it must be shielded warily. Where is
Thorolf?
  EGIL (to his father). Ay, show me Thorolf! Ornulf told me he would
carve me a ship with many, many warriors on board.
  ORNULF. I praise all good wights that Thorolf came not with us; for
if he too--nay, strong though I be, that had been too heavy for me to
bear. But why comes he not? He was ever the first to meet his father;
for both of us it seemed we could not live without each other a single
day.
  GUNNAR. Ornulf, Ornulf!
  ORNULF (with growing uneasiness). Ye stand all silent, I mark it
now. What ails you? Where is Thorolf?
  DAGNY. Sigurd, Sigurd--this will be the direst blow to him!
  GUNNAR (struggling with himself). Old man!--No---- ---- and yet, it
cannot be hid----
  ORNULF (vehemently). My son! Where is he!
  GUNNAR. Thorolf is slain!
  ORNULF. Slain! Thorolf? Thorolf? Ha, thou liest!
  GUNNAR. I would give my warmest heart-blood to know him alive!
  HIORDIS (to ORNULF). Thorolf was himself to blame for what befell;
with dark sayings he gave us to wit that thou hadst fallen upon Egil
and slain him;--we had parted half in wrath, and thou hast ere now
brought death among my kindred. And moreover--Thorolf bore himself
at the feast like a wanton boy; he brooked not our jesting, and spoke
many evil things. Not till then did Gunnar wax wroth; not till then
did he raise his hand upon thy son; and well I wot that he had good
and lawful ground for that deed.
