The crowd had recognized its champion.  “Big” Bill, as usual, had come to
the front, and Catherine Van Vorst was bewildered by the cries of “Bill!
O you Bill!” that arose on every hand.  Pat Morrissey, on his waggon
seat, was jumping and screaming in an ecstasy, “Eat ’em, Bill!  Eat ’em!
Eat ’em alive!”  From the sidewalk she heard a woman’s voice cry out,
“Look out, Bill—front end!”  Bill took the warning and with well-directed
coal cleared the front end of the waggon of assailants.  Catherine Van
Vorst turned her head and saw on the curb of the sidewalk a woman with
vivid colouring and flashing black eyes who was staring with all her soul
at the man who had been Freddie Drummond a few minutes before.
The windows of the office building became vociferous with applause.  A
fresh shower of office chairs and filing cabinets descended.  The mob had
broken through on one side the line of waggons, and was advancing, each
segregated policeman the centre of a fighting group.  The scabs were torn
from their seats, the traces of the horses cut, and the frightened
animals put in flight.  Many policemen crawled under the coal waggon for
safety, while the loose horses, with here and there a policeman on their
backs or struggling at their heads to hold them, surged across the
sidewalk opposite the jam and broke into Market Street.
Catherine Van Vorst heard the woman’s voice calling in warning.  She was
back on the curb again, and crying out—
“Beat it, Bill!  Now’s your time!  Beat it!”
The police for the moment had been swept away.  Bill Totts leaped to the
pavement and made his way to the woman on the sidewalk.  Catherine Van
Vorst saw her throw her arms around him and kiss him on the lips; and
Catherine Van Vorst watched him curiously as he went on down the
sidewalk, one arm around the woman, both talking and laughing, and he
with a volubility and abandon she could never have dreamed possible.
The police were back again and clearing the jam while waiting for
reinforcements and new drivers and horses.  The mob had done its work and
was scattering, and Catherine Van Vorst, still watching, could see the
man she had known as Freddie Drummond.  He towered a head above the
crowd.  His arm was still about the woman.  And she in the motor-car,
watching, saw the pair cross Market Street, cross the Slot, and disappear
down Third Street into the labour ghetto.
                                * * * * *
In the years that followed no more lectures were given in the University
of California by one Freddie Drummond, and no more books on economics and
the labour question appeared over the name of Frederick A. Drummond.  On
the other hand there arose a new labour leader, William Totts by name.
He it was who married Mary Condon, President of the International Glove
Workers’ Union No. 974; and he it was who called the notorious Cooks and
Waiters’ Strike, which, before its successful termination, brought out
with it scores of other unions, among which, of the more remotely allied,
were the Chicken Pickers and the Undertakers.
