After he is gone?  Will he then some day be gone, and this planet know
him no more?  Is it thither that the human drift in all its totality is
trending?  God Himself is silent on this point, though some of His
prophets have given us vivid representations of that last day when the
earth shall pass into nothingness.  Nor does science, despite its radium
speculations and its attempted analyses of the ultimate nature of matter,
give us any other word than that man will pass.  So far as man's
knowledge goes, law is universal.  Elements react under certain
unchangeable conditions.  One of these conditions is temperature.  Whether
it be in the test tube of the laboratory or the workshop of nature, all
organic chemical reactions take place only within a restricted range of
heat.  Man, the latest of the ephemera, is pitifully a creature of
temperature, strutting his brief day on the thermometer.  Behind him is a
past wherein it was too warm for him to exist.  Ahead of him is a future
wherein it will be too cold for him to exist.  He cannot adjust himself
to that future, because he cannot alter universal law, because he cannot
alter his own construction nor the molecules that compose him.
It would be well to ponder these lines of Herbert Spencer's which follow,
and which embody, possibly, the wildest vision the scientific mind has
ever achieved:
   "Motion as well as Matter being fixed in quantity, it would seem that
   the change in the distribution of Matter which Motion effects, coming
   to a limit in whichever direction it is carried, the indestructible
   Motion thereupon necessitates a reverse distribution.  Apparently, the
   universally-co-existent forces of attraction and repulsion, which, as
   we have seen, necessitate rhythm in all minor changes throughout the
   Universe, also necessitate rhythm in the totality of its
   changes--produce now an immeasurable period during which the
   attractive forces predominating, cause universal concentration, and
   then an immeasurable period during which the repulsive forces
   predominating, cause universal diffusion--alternate eras of Evolution
   and Dissolution.  _And thus there is suggested the conception of a
   past during which there have been successive Evolutions analogous to
   that which is now going on; a future during which successive other
   Evolutions may go on--ever the same in principle but never the same in
   concrete result_."
That is it--the most we know--alternate eras of evolution and
dissolution.  In the past there have been other evolutions similar to
that one in which we live, and in the future there may be other similar
evolutions--that is all.  The principle of all these evolutions remains,
but the concrete results are never twice alike.  Man was not; he was; and
again he will not be.  In eternity which is beyond our comprehension, the
particular evolution of that solar satellite we call the "Earth" occupied
but a slight fraction of time.  And of that fraction of time man occupies
but a small portion.  All the whole human drift, from the first ape-man
to the last savant, is but a phantom, a flash of light and a flutter of
movement across the infinite face of the starry night.
