We sat together talking of a thousand things--of what had been, and what
was to be--all the rest of the day, and in the evening he took his
leave of me, with a thousand expressions of kindness and tenderness and
true affection to me, but offered not the least of what my maid Amy had
suggested.
At his going away he took me in his arms, protested an honest kindness
to me; said a thousand kind things to me, which I cannot now recollect;
and, after kissing me twenty times or thereabouts, put a guinea into my
hand, which, he said, was for my present supply, and told me that he
would see me again before it was out; also he gave Amy half-a-crown.
When he was gone, "Well, Amy," said I, "are you convinced now that he is
an honest as well as a true friend, and that there has been nothing, not
the least appearance of anything, of what you imagined in his
behaviour?" "Yes," says Amy, "I am, but I admire at it. He is such a
friend as the world, sure, has not abundance of to show."
"I am sure," says I, "he is such a friend as I have long wanted, and as
I have as much need of as any creature in the world has or ever had."
And, in short, I was so overcome with the comfort of it that I sat down
and cried for joy a good while, as I had formerly cried for sorrow. Amy
and I went to bed that night (for Amy lay with me) pretty early, but lay
chatting almost all night about it, and the girl was so transported that
she got up two or three times in the night and danced about the room in
her shift; in short, the girl was half distracted with the joy of it; a
testimony still of her violent affection for her mistress, in which no
servant ever went beyond her.
We heard no more of him for two days, but the third day he came again;
then he told me, with the same kindness, that he had ordered me a supply
of household goods for the furnishing the house; that, in particular, he
had sent me back all the goods that he had seized for rent, which
consisted, indeed, of the best of my former furniture. "And now," says
he, "I'll tell you what I have had in my head for you for your present
supply, and that is," says he, "that the house being well furnished, you
shall let it out to lodgings for the summer gentry," says he, "by which
you will easily get a good comfortable subsistence, especially seeing
you shall pay me no rent for two years, nor after neither, unless you
can afford it."
This was the first view I had of living comfortably indeed, and it was a
very probable way, I must confess, seeing we had very good conveniences,
six rooms on a floor, and three stories high. While he was laying down
the scheme of my management, came a cart to the door with a load of
goods, and an upholsterer's man to put them up. They were chiefly the
furniture of two rooms which he had carried away for his two years'
rent, with two fine cabinets, and some pier-glasses out of the parlour,
and several other valuable things.
