Dismay and anguish were depicted on every countenance, the males turned
pale, and the females fainted, Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle grasped
each other by the hand, and gazed at the spot where their leader
had gone down, with frenzied eagerness; while Mr. Tupman, by way of
rendering the promptest assistance, and at the same time conveying to
any persons who might be within hearing, the clearest possible notion
of the catastrophe, ran off across the country at his utmost speed,
screaming "Fire!" with all his might.
It was at this moment, when old Wardle and Sam Weller were approaching
the hole with cautious steps, and Mr. Benjamin Allen was holding a
hurried consultation with Bob Sawyer, on the advisability of bleeding
the company generally, as an improving little bit of professional
practice--it was at this very moment, that a face, head, and shoulders,
emerged from beneath the water, and disclosed the features and
spectacles of Mr. Pickwick.
[Illustration: _A face, head, and shoulders, emerged from beneath the
water, and disclosed the features and spectacles of Mr. Pickwick._]
"Keep yourself up for an instant--for only one instant;" bawled Mr.
Snodgrass.
"Yes, do; let me implore you--for my sake!" roared Mr. Winkle, deeply
affected. The adjuration was rather unnecessary: the probability being,
that if Mr. Pickwick; had declined to keep himself up for anybody
else's sake, it would have occurred to him that he might as well do so
for his own.
"Do you feel the bottom there, old fellow?" said Wardle.
"Yes, certainly," replied Mr. Pickwick, wringing the water from his
head and face, and gasping for breath. "I fell upon my back. I couldn't
get on my feet at first."
The clay upon so much of Mr. Pickwick's coat as was yet visible, bore
testimony to the accuracy of this statement; and as the fears of the
spectators were still further relieved by the fat boy's suddenly
recollecting that the water was nowhere more than five feet deep,
prodigies of valour were performed to get him out. After a vast
quantity of splashing, and cracking, and struggling, Mr. Pickwick was
at length fairly extricated from his unpleasant position, and once more
stood on dry land.
"Oh, he'll catch his death of cold," said Emily.
"Dear old thing!" said Arabella. "Let me wrap this shawl round you, Mr.
Pickwick."
"Ah, that's the best thing you can do," said Wardle; "and when you've
got it on, run home as fast as your legs can carry you, and jump into
bed directly."
A dozen shawls were offered on the instant. Three or four of the
thickest having been selected, Mr. Pickwick was wrapped up, and
started off, under the guidance of Mr. Weller: presenting the singular
phenomenon of an elderly gentleman, dripping wet, and without a hat,
with his arms bound down to his sides, skimming over the ground,
without any clearly defined purpose, at the rate of six good English
miles an hour.
But Mr. Pickwick cared not for appearances in such an extreme case, and
urged on by Sam Weller, he kept at the very top of his speed until he
reached the door of Manor Farm, where Mr. Tupman had arrived some five
minutes before, and had frightened the old lady into palpitations of
the heart by impressing her with the unalterable conviction that the
kitchen chimney was on fire--a calamity which always presented itself
in glowing colours to the old lady's mind, when anybody about her
evinced the smallest agitation.
