‘_Most_ agreeable!’ replied my Lady Bowley.  ‘The worst man among them!
He has been committing a robbery, I hope?’
‘Why no,’ said Sir Joseph’, referring to the letter.  ‘Not quite.  Very
near.  Not quite.  He came up to London, it seems, to look for employment
(trying to better himself—that’s his story), and being found at night
asleep in a shed, was taken into custody, and carried next morning before
the Alderman.  The Alderman observes (very properly) that he is
determined to put this sort of thing down; and that if it will be
agreeable to me to have Will Fern put down, he will be happy to begin
with him.’
‘Let him be made an example of, by all means,’ returned the lady.  ‘Last
winter, when I introduced pinking and eyelet-holing among the men and
boys in the village, as a nice evening employment, and had the lines,
    O let us love our occupations,
    Bless the squire and his relations,
    Live upon our daily rations,
    And always know our proper stations,
set to music on the new system, for them to sing the while; this very
Fern—I see him now—touched that hat of his, and said, “I humbly ask your
pardon, my lady, but _an’t_ I something different from a great girl?”  I
expected it, of course; who can expect anything but insolence and
ingratitude from that class of people!  That is not to the purpose,
however.  Sir Joseph!  Make an example of him!’
‘Hem!’ coughed Sir Joseph.  ‘Mr. Fish, if you’ll have the goodness to
attend—’
Mr. Fish immediately seized his pen, and wrote from Sir Joseph’s
dictation.
‘Private.  My dear Sir.  I am very much indebted to you for your courtesy
in the matter of the man William Fern, of whom, I regret to add, I can
say nothing favourable.  I have uniformly considered myself in the light
of his Friend and Father, but have been repaid (a common case, I grieve
to say) with ingratitude, and constant opposition to my plans.  He is a
turbulent and rebellious spirit.  His character will not bear
investigation.  Nothing will persuade him to be happy when he might.
Under these circumstances, it appears to me, I own, that when he comes
before you again (as you informed me he promised to do to-morrow, pending
your inquiries, and I think he may be so far relied upon), his committal
for some short term as a Vagabond, would be a service to society, and
would be a salutary example in a country where—for the sake of those who
are, through good and evil report, the Friends and Fathers of the Poor,
as well as with a view to that, generally speaking, misguided class
themselves—examples are greatly needed.  And I am,’ and so forth.
‘It appears,’ remarked Sir Joseph when he had signed this letter, and Mr.
Fish was sealing it, ‘as if this were Ordained: really.  At the close of
the year, I wind up my account and strike my balance, even with William
Fern!’
