"I'm sorry I've upset you. But when you know a thing like that it isn't
in flesh and blood to keep it from his wife. I am a married woman
myself, and I know. I knew Mr. Baldry fifteen years ago." Her voice
freely confessed that she had taken a liberty. "Quite a friend of the
family he was." She had added that touch to soften the crude
surprisingness of her announcement. It hardly did. "We lost sight of
each other. It's fifteen years since we last met. I had never seen nor
heard of him nor thought to do again till I got this a week ago."
She undid the purse and took out a telegram. I knew suddenly that all
she said was true; for that was why her hands had clasped that purse.
"He isn't well! He isn't well!" she said pleadingly. "He's lost his
memory, and thinks--thinks he still knows me."
She passed the telegram to Kitty, who read it, and laid it on her knee.
"See," said Mrs. Grey, "it's addressed to Margaret Allington, my maiden
name, and I've been married these ten years. And it was sent to my old
home, Monkey Island, at Bray. Father kept the inn there. It's fifteen
years since we left it. I never should have got this telegram if me and
my husband hadn't been down there last September and told the folks who
keep it now who I was."
Kitty folded up the telegram and said in a little voice:
"This is a likely story."
Again Mrs. Grey's eyes brimmed. "People are rude to one," she visibly
said, but surely not nice people like this. She simply continued to sit.
Kitty cried out, as though arguing:
"There's nothing about shell-shock in this wire."
Our visitor melted into a trembling shyness.
"There was a letter, too."
Kitty held out her hand.
She gasped:
"Oh, no, I couldn't do that!"
"I must have it," said Kitty.
The caller's eyes grew great. She rose and dived clumsily for her
umbrella, which had again slipped under the chair.
"I can't," she cried, and scurried to the open door like a pelted dog.
She would have run down the steps at once had not some tender thought
arrested her. She turned to me trustfully and stammered, "He is at that
hospital I said," as if, since I had dealt her no direct blow, I might
be able to salve the news she brought from the general wreck of manners.
And then Kitty's stiff pallor struck to her heart, and cried
comfortingly across the distance, "I tell you, I haven't seen him for
fifteen years." She faced about, pushed down her hat on her head, and
ran down the steps to the gravel. "They won't understand!" we heard her
sob.
For a long time we watched her as she went along the drive, her
yellowish raincoat looking sick and bright in the sharp sunshine, her
black plumes nodding like the pines above, her cheap boots making her
walk on her heels, a spreading stain on the fabric of our life. When she
was quite hidden by the dark clump of rhododendrons at the corner, Kitty
turned and went to the fireplace. She laid her arms against the oak
mantel-piece and cooled her face against her arms.
