As a characteristic illustration of how a capable hobo can hold her
down, I am minded to give the following experience. I was in Ottawa,
bound west over the Canadian Pacific. Three thousand miles of that
road stretched before me; it was the fall of the year, and I had to
cross Manitoba and the Rocky Mountains. I could expect "crimpy"
weather, and every moment of delay increased the frigid hardships of
the journey. Furthermore, I was disgusted. The distance between
Montreal and Ottawa is one hundred and twenty miles. I ought to know,
for I had just come over it and it had taken me six days. By mistake I
had missed the main line and come over a small "jerk" with only two
locals a day on it. And during these six days I had lived on dry
crusts, and not enough of them, begged from the French peasants.
Furthermore, my disgust had been heightened by the one day I had spent
in Ottawa trying to get an outfit of clothing for my long journey. Let
me put it on record right here that Ottawa, with one exception, is the
hardest town in the United States and Canada to beg clothes in; the
one exception is Washington, D.C. The latter fair city is the limit. I
spent two weeks there trying to beg a pair of shoes, and then had to
go on to Jersey City before I got them.
But to return to Ottawa. At eight sharp in the morning I started out
after clothes. I worked energetically all day. I swear I walked forty
miles. I interviewed the housewives of a thousand homes. I did not
even knock off work for dinner. And at six in the afternoon, after ten
hours of unremitting and depressing toil, I was still shy one shirt,
while the pair of trousers I had managed to acquire was tight and,
moreover, was showing all the signs of an early disintegration.
At six I quit work and headed for the railroad yards, expecting to
pick up something to eat on the way. But my hard luck was still with
me. I was refused food at house after house. Then I got a "hand-out."
My spirits soared, for it was the largest hand-out I had ever seen in
a long and varied experience. It was a parcel wrapped in newspapers
and as big as a mature suit-case. I hurried to a vacant lot and opened
it. First, I saw cake, then more cake, all kinds and makes of cake,
and then some. It was all cake. No bread and butter with thick firm
slices of meat between--nothing but cake; and I who of all things
abhorred cake most! In another age and clime they sat down by the
waters of Babylon and wept. And in a vacant lot in Canada's proud
capital, I, too, sat down and wept ... over a mountain of cake. As one
looks upon the face of his dead son, so looked I upon that
multitudinous pastry. I suppose I was an ungrateful tramp, for I
refused to partake of the bounteousness of the house that had had a
party the night before. Evidently the guests hadn't liked cake either.
