"Ain't he awake yet?" he enquired.
"No," she faltered.
"I got his milk all ready when he wants it. You know you told me to have
it for him by seven."
She nodded silently and crept into her seat.
At half-past eight the train reached Buffalo. By this time the other
passengers were dressed and the berths had been folded back for the day.
The porter, moving to and fro under his burden of sheets and pillows,
glanced at her as he passed. At length he said: "Ain't he going to get
up? You know we're ordered to make up the berths as early as we can."
She turned cold with fear. They were just entering the station.
"Oh, not yet," she stammered. "Not till he's had his milk. Won't you get
it, please?"
"All right. Soon as we start again."
When the train moved on he reappeared with the milk. She took it from
him and sat vaguely looking at it: her brain moved slowly from one idea
to another, as though they were stepping-stones set far apart across a
whirling flood. At length she became aware that the porter still hovered
expectantly.
"Will I give it to him?" he suggested.
"Oh, no," she cried, rising. "He--he's asleep yet, I think--"
She waited till the porter had passed on; then she unpinned the curtains
and slipped behind them. In the semi-obscurity her husband's face stared
up at her like a marble mask with agate eyes. The eyes were dreadful.
She put out her hand and drew down the lids. Then she remembered the
glass of milk in her other hand: what was she to do with it? She thought
of raising the window and throwing it out; but to do so she would have
to lean across his body and bring her face close to his. She decided to
drink the milk.
She returned to her seat with the empty glass and after a while the
porter came back to get it.
"When'll I fold up his bed?" he asked.
"Oh, not now--not yet; he's ill--he's very ill. Can't you let him stay
as he is? The doctor wants him to lie down as much as possible."
He scratched his head. "Well, if he's _really_ sick--"
He took the empty glass and walked away, explaining to the passengers
that the party behind the curtains was too sick to get up just yet.
She found herself the centre of sympathetic eyes. A motherly woman with
an intimate smile sat down beside her.
"I'm real sorry to hear your husband's sick. I've had a remarkable
amount of sickness in my family and maybe I could assist you. Can I take
a look at him?"
"Oh, no--no, please! He mustn't be disturbed."
The lady accepted the rebuff indulgently.
"Well, it's just as you say, of course, but you don't look to me as if
you'd had much experience in sickness and I'd have been glad to assist
you. What do you generally do when your husband's taken this way?"
