"I think that's Mr. Grey come in from his gardening. You'll excuse me."
Through the open door I heard a voice saying in a way which suggested
that its production involved much agitation of a prominent Adam's apple:
"Well, dear, seeing you had a friend, I thought I'd better slip up and
change my gardening trousers." I do not know what she said to him, but
her voice was soft and comforting and occasionally girlish and
interrupted by laughter, and I perceived from its sound that with
characteristic gravity she had accepted it as her mission to keep
loveliness and excitement alive in his life.
"An old friend of mine has been wounded," was the only phrase I heard;
but when she drew him out into the garden under the window she had
evidently explained the situation away, for he listened docilely as she
said: "I've made some rock-cakes for your tea. And if I'm late for
supper, there's a dish of macaroni cheese you must put in the oven and a
tin of tomatoes to eat with it. And there is a little rhubarb and
shape." She told them off on her fingers, and then whisked him round and
buckled the wagging straps at the back of his waistcoat. He was a lank
man, with curly gray hairs growing from every place where it is
inadvisable that hairs should grow,--from the inside of his ears, from
his nostrils, on the back of his hands,--but he looked pleased when she
touched him, and he said in a devoted way:
"Very well, dear. Don't worry about me. I'll trot along after tea and
have a game of draughts with Brown."
She answered:
"Yes, dear. And now get on with those cabbages. You're going to keep me
in lovely cabbages, just as you did last year, won't you, darling?" She
linked arms with him and took him back to his digging.
When she came back into the parlor again she was wearing that yellowish
raincoat, that hat with hearse plumes nodding over its sticky straw,
that gray alpaca skirt. I first defensively clenched my hands. It would
have been such agony to the finger-tips to touch any part of her
apparel. And then I thought of Chris, to whom a second before I had
hoped to bring a serene comforter. I perceived clearly that that
ecstatic woman lifting her eyes and her hands to the benediction of love
was Margaret as she existed in eternity; but this was Margaret as she
existed in time, as the fifteen years between Monkey Island and this
damp day in Ladysmith Road had irreparably made her. Well, I had
promised to bring her to him.
She said:
"I'm ready," and against that simple view of her condition I had no
argument. But when she paused by the painted drainpipe in the hall and
peered under contracted brows for that unveracious tortoiseshell handle,
I said hastily:
"Oh, don't trouble about an umbrella."
"I'll maybe need it walking home," she pondered.
