_Hilarion_--"They are temperate, as you see!"
_Manes_--"There is a great deal of it in flesh-meats, less in herbs.
Besides, the Pure, by the force of their merits, despoil vegetables of
that luminous spark, and it flies towards its source. The animals, by
generation, imprison it in the flesh. Therefore, avoid women!"
_Hilarion_--"Admire their countenance!"
_Manes_--"Or, rather, act so well that they may not be prolific. It is
better for the soul to sink on the earth than to languish in carnal
fetters."
_Antony_--"Ah! abomination!"
_Hilarion_--"What matters the hierarchy of iniquities? The Church has
done well to make marriage a sacrament!"
_Saturninus_, in Syrian costume--"He propagates a dismal order of
things! The Father, in order to punish the rebel angels, commanded them
to create the world. Christ came in order that the God of the Jews, who
was one of those angels----"
_Antony_--"An angel? He! the Creator?"
_Gerdon_--"Did He not desire to kill Moses and deceive the prophets? and
did He not lead the people astray, spreading lying and idolatry?"
_Marcion_--"Certainly, the Creator is not the true God!"
_Saint Clement of Alexandria_--"Matter is eternal!"
_Bardesanes_, as one of the Babylonian Magi--"It was formed by the seven
planetary spirits."
_The Hernians_--"The angels have made the souls!"
_The Priscillianists_--"The world was made by the Devil."
_Antony_, falls backward--"Horror!"
_Hilarion_, holding him up--"You drive yourself to despair too quickly!
You don't rightly comprehend their doctrine. Here is one who has
received his from Theodas, the friend of Saint Paul. Hearken to him!"
And, at a signal from Hilarion, Valentinus, in a tunic of silver cloth,
with a hissing voice and a pointed skull, cries:
"The world is the work of a delirious God!"
_Antony_, hangs down his head--"The work of a delirious God!"
After a long silence:
"How is that?"
_Valentinus_--"The most perfect of the AEons, the Abysm, reposed on the
bosom of Profundity together with Thought. From their union sprang
Intelligence, who had for his consort Truth.
"Intelligence and Truth engendered the Word and Life, which in their
turn engendered Man and the Church; and this makes eight AEons."
He reckons on his fingers:
"The Word and Truth produced ten other AEons, that is to say, five
couples. Man and the Church produced twelve others, amongst whom were
the Paraclete and Faith, Hope and Charity, Perfection and Wisdom,
Sophia.
"The entire of those thirty AEons constitutes the Pleroma, or
Universality of God. Thus, like the echoes of a voice that is dying
away, like the exhalations of a perfume that is evaporating, like the
fires of a sun that is setting, the Powers that have emanated from the
Highest Powers are always growing feeble.
"But Sophia, desirous of knowing the Father, rushed out of the Pleroma;
and the Word then made another pair, Christ and the Holy Ghost, who
bound together all the AEons, and all together they formed Jesus, the
flower of the Pleroma. Meanwhile, the effort of Sophia to escape had
left in the void an image of her, an evil substance, Acharamoth. The
Saviour took pity on her, and delivered her from her passions; and from
the smile of Acharamoth on being set free Light was born; her tears made
the waters, and her sadness engendered gloomy Matter. From Acharamoth
sprang the Demiurge, the fabricator of the worlds, the heavens, and the
Devil. He dwells much lower down than the Pleroma, without even
beholding it, so that he imagines he is the true God, and repeats
through the mouths of his prophets: 'Besides me there is no God.' Then
he made man, and cast into his soul the immaterial seed, which was the
Church, the reflection of the other Church placed in the Pleroma.
