“I made good on my job from the first, and lived in Quito in a ’dobe
house with whacking big Spanish tiles on the roof that I’d rented.  And I
never had much trouble with the Spiggoties, what of letting them sneak
free rides in the tender or on the cowcatcher.  Me throw them off?
Never!  I took notice, when Jack Harris put off a bunch of them, that I
attended his funeral _muy pronto_—”
“Speak English,” the little woman beside him snapped.
“Sarah just can’t bear to tolerate me speaking Spanish,” he apologized.
“It gets so on her nerves that I promised not to.  Well, as I was saying,
the goose hung high and everything was going hunky-dory, and I was piling
up my wages to come north to Nebraska and marry Sarah, when I run on to
Vahna—”
“The hussy!” Sarah hissed.
“Now, Sarah,” her towering giant of a husband begged, “I just got to
mention her or I can’t tell about the nugget.—It was one night when I was
taking a locomotive—no train—down to Amato, about thirty miles from
Quito.  Seth Manners was my fireman.  I was breaking him in to engineer
for himself, and I was letting him run the locomotive while I sat up in
his seat meditating about Sarah here.  I’d just got a letter from her,
begging as usual for me to come home and hinting as usual about the
dangers of an unmarried man like me running around loose in a country
full of senoritas and fandangos.  Lord!  If she could only a-seen them.
Positive frights, that’s what they are, their faces painted white as
corpses and their lips red as—as some of the train wrecks I’ve helped
clean up.
“It was a lovely April night, not a breath of wind, and a tremendous big
moon shining right over the top of Chimborazo.—Some mountain that.  The
railroad skirted it twelve thousand feet above sea level, and the top of
it ten thousand feet higher than that.
“Mebbe I was drowsing, with Seth running the engine; but he slammed on
the brakes so sudden hard that I darn near went through the cab window.
“‘What the—’ I started to yell, and ‘Holy hell,’ Seth says, as both of us
looked at what was on the track.  And I agreed with Seth entirely in his
remark.  It was an Indian girl—and take it from me, Indians ain’t
Spiggoties by any manner of means.  Seth had managed to fetch a stop
within twenty feet of her, and us bowling down hill at that!  But the
girl.  She—”
I saw the form of Mrs. Julian Jones stiffen, although she kept her gaze
fixed balefully upon two mud-hens that were prowling along the lagoon
shallows below us.  “The hussy!” she hissed, once and implacably.  Jones
had stopped at the sound, but went on immediately.
“She was a tall girl, slim and slender, you know the kind, with black
hair, remarkably long hanging, down loose behind her, as she stood there
no more afraid than nothing, her arms spread out to stop the engine.  She
was wearing a slimpsy sort of garment wrapped around her that wasn’t
cloth but ocelot skins, soft and dappled, and silky.  It was all she had
on—”
