"Plague victims," he announced. "That's the way they died everywhere
in the last days. This must have been a family, running away from the
contagion and perishing here on the Cliff House beach. They--what are
you doing, Edwin?"
This question was asked in sudden dismay, as Edwin, using the back of
his hunting knife, began to knock out the teeth from the jaws of one of
the skulls.
"Going to string 'em," was the response.
The three boys were now hard at it; and quite a knocking and hammering
arose, in which Granser babbled on unnoticed.
"You are true savages. Already has begun the custom of wearing human
teeth. In another generation you will be perforating your noses and
ears and wearing ornaments of bone and shell. I know. The human race
is doomed to sink back farther and farther into the primitive night
ere again it begins its bloody climb upward to civilization. When we
increase and feel the lack of room, we will proceed to kill one another.
And then I suppose you will wear human scalp-locks at your waist, as
well--as you, Edwin, who are the gentlest of my grandsons, have already
begun with that vile pigtail. Throw it away, Edwin, boy; throw it away."
"What a gabble the old geezer makes," Hare-Lip remarked, when, the teeth
all extracted, they began an attempt at equal division.
They were very quick and abrupt in their actions, and their speech, in
moments of hot discussion over the allotment of the choicer teeth, was
truly a gabble. They spoke in monosyllables and short jerky sentences
that was more a gibberish than a language. And yet, through it ran hints
of grammatical construction, and appeared vestiges of the conjugation
of some superior culture. Even the speech of Granser was so corrupt that
were it put down literally it would be almost so much nonsense to the
reader. This, however, was when he talked with the boys.
When he got into the full swing of babbling to himself, it slowly purged
itself into pure English. The sentences grew longer and were enunciated
with a rhythm and ease that was reminiscent of the lecture platform.
"Tell us about the Red Death, Granser," Hare-Lip demanded, when the
teeth affair had been satisfactorily concluded.
"The Scarlet Death," Edwin corrected.
"An' don't work all that funny lingo on us," Hare-Lip went on. "Talk
sensible, Granser, like a Santa Rosan ought to talk. Other Santa Rosans
don't talk like you."
II
THE old man showed pleasure in being thus called upon. He cleared his
throat and began.
"Twenty or thirty years ago my story was in great demand. But in these
days nobody seems interested--"
"There you go!" Hare-Lip cried hotly. "Cut out the funny stuff and talk
sensible. What's _interested?_ You talk like a baby that don't know
how."
"Let him alone," Edwin urged, "or he'll get mad and won't talk at all.
Skip the funny places. We'll catch on to some of what he tells us."
