Though no opening presented for an interview with Zarinska, Mackenzie
stole many a glance to her, giving fair warning of his intent. And well
she knew, yet coquettishly surrounded herself with a ring of women
whenever the men were away and he had a chance. But he was in no hurry;
besides, he knew she could not help but think of him, and a few days of
such thought would only better his suit.
At last, one night, when he deemed the time to be ripe, he abruptly
left the chief's smoky dwelling and hastened to a neighboring lodge. As
usual, she sat with squaws and maidens about her, all engaged in sewing
moccasins and beadwork. They laughed at his entrance, and badinage,
which linked Zarinska to him, ran high. But one after the other they
were unceremoniously bundled into the outer snow, whence they hurried
to spread the tale through all the camp.
His cause was well pleaded, in her tongue, for she did not know his,
and at the end of two hours he rose to go.
'So Zarinska will come to the White Man's lodge? Good! I go now to have
talk with thy father, for he may not be so minded. And I will give him
many tokens; but he must not ask too much. If he say no? Good! Zarinska
shall yet come to the White Man's lodge.'
He had already lifted the skin flap to depart, when a low exclamation
brought him back to the girl's side. She brought herself to her knees
on the bearskin mat, her face aglow with true Eve-light, and shyly
unbuckled his heavy belt. He looked down, perplexed, suspicious, his
ears alert for the slightest sound without.
But her next move disarmed his doubt, and he smiled with pleasure. She
took from her sewing bag a moosehide sheath, brave with bright
beadwork, fantastically designed. She drew his great hunting-knife,
gazed reverently along the keen edge, half tempted to try it with her
thumb, and shot it into place in its new home. Then she slipped the
sheath along the belt to its customary resting-place, just above the
hip.  For all the world, it was like a scene of olden time,--a lady and
her knight.
Mackenzie drew her up full height and swept her red lips with his
moustache, the, to her, foreign caress of the Wolf. It was a meeting of
the stone age and the steel; but she was none the less a woman, as her
crimson cheeks and the luminous softness of her eyes attested.
There was a thrill of excitement in the air as 'Scruff' Mackenzie, a
bulky bundle under his arm, threw open the flap of Thling-Tinneh's
tent. Children were running about in the open, dragging dry wood to the
scene of the potlach, a babble of women's voices was growing in
intensity, the young men were consulting in sullen groups, while from
the Shaman's lodge rose the eerie sounds of an incantation.
The chief was alone with his blear-eyed wife, but a glance sufficed to
tell Mackenzie that the news was already told. So he plunged at once
into the business, shifting the beaded sheath prominently to the fore
as advertisement of the betrothal.
