'Don't stop, dear fellow.  Go on.'
'Can I anyhow have hurt your feelings, Jack?'
'How can you have hurt my feelings?'
'Good Heaven, Jack, you look frightfully ill!  There's a strange film
come over your eyes.'
Mr. Jasper, with a forced smile, stretches out his right hand, as if at
once to disarm apprehension and gain time to get better.  After a while
he says faintly:
'I have been taking opium for a pain--an agony--that sometimes overcomes
me.  The effects of the medicine steal over me like a blight or a cloud,
and pass.  You see them in the act of passing; they will be gone
directly.  Look away from me.  They will go all the sooner.'
With a scared face the younger man complies by casting his eyes downward
at the ashes on the hearth.  Not relaxing his own gaze on the fire, but
rather strengthening it with a fierce, firm grip upon his elbow-chair,
the elder sits for a few moments rigid, and then, with thick drops
standing on his forehead, and a sharp catch of his breath, becomes as he
was before.  On his so subsiding in his chair, his nephew gently and
assiduously tends him while he quite recovers.  When Jasper is restored,
he lays a tender hand upon his nephew's shoulder, and, in a tone of voice
less troubled than the purport of his words--indeed with something of
raillery or banter in it--thus addresses him:
'There is said to be a hidden skeleton in every house; but you thought
there was none in mine, dear Ned.'
'Upon my life, Jack, I did think so.  However, when I come to consider
that even in Pussy's house--if she had one--and in mine--if I had one--'
'You were going to say (but that I interrupted you in spite of myself)
what a quiet life mine is.  No whirl and uproar around me, no distracting
commerce or calculation, no risk, no change of place, myself devoted to
the art I pursue, my business my pleasure.'
'I really was going to say something of the kind, Jack; but you see, you,
speaking of yourself, almost necessarily leave out much that I should
have put in.  For instance: I should have put in the foreground your
being so much respected as Lay Precentor, or Lay Clerk, or whatever you
call it, of this Cathedral; your enjoying the reputation of having done
such wonders with the choir; your choosing your society, and holding such
an independent position in this queer old place; your gift of teaching
(why, even Pussy, who don't like being taught, says there never was such
a Master as you are!), and your connexion.'
'Yes; I saw what you were tending to.  I hate it.'
'Hate it, Jack?'  (Much bewildered.)
'I hate it.  The cramped monotony of my existence grinds me away by the
grain.  How does our service sound to you?'
'Beautiful!  Quite celestial!'
'It often sounds to me quite devilish.  I am so weary of it.  The echoes
of my own voice among the arches seem to mock me with my daily drudging
round.  No wretched monk who droned his life away in that gloomy place,
before me, can have been more tired of it than I am.  He could take for
relief (and did take) to carving demons out of the stalls and seats and
desks.  What shall I do?  Must I take to carving them out of my heart?'
