"Oh, I see,--you had to come--claim against the government. Make
yourself perfectly easy--I'll take care of that."
"But it isn't a claim against the government."
"No? Want to be postmaster? That's all right. Leave it to me. I'll fix
it."
"But it isn't postmaster--you're all astray yet."
"Well, good gracious, Washington, why don't you come out and tell me
what it is? What, do you want to be so reserved and distrustful with an
old friend like me for? Don't you reckon I can keep a se--"
"There's no secret about it--you merely don't give me a chance to--"
"Now look here, old friend, I know the human race; and I know that when
a man comes to Washington, I don't care if it's from heaven, let alone
Cherokee-Strip, it's because he wants something. And I know that as
a rule he's not going to get it; that he'll stay and try--for another
thing and won't get that; the same luck with the next and the next
and the next; and keeps on till he strikes bottom, and is too poor
and ashamed to go back, even to Cherokee Strip; and at last his heart
breaks--and they take up a collection and bury him. There--don't
interrupt me, I know what I'm talking about. Happy and prosperous in the
Far West wasn't I? You know that. Principal citizen of Hawkeye, looked
up to by everybody, kind of an autocrat, actually a kind of an autocrat,
Washington. Well, nothing would do but I must go Minister to St.
James, the Governor and everybody insisting, you know, and so at last I
consented--no getting out of it, had to do it, so here I came. A day too
late, Washington. Think of that--what little things change the world's
history--yes, sir, the place had been filled. Well, there I was, you
see. I offered to compromise and go to Paris. The President was very
sorry and all that, but that place, you see, didn't belong to the West,
so there I was again. There was no help for it, so I had to stoop a
little--we all reach the day some time or other when we've got to do
that, Washington, and it's not a bad thing for us, either, take it by
and large and all around--I had to stoop a little and offer to
take Constantinople. Washington, consider this--for it's perfectly
true--within a month I asked for China; within another month I begged
for Japan; one year later I was away down, down, down, supplicating with
tears and anguish for the bottom office in the gift of the government
of the United States--Flint-Picker in the cellars of the War Department.
And by George I didn't get it."
"Flint-Picker?"
"Yes. Office established in the time of the Revolution, last century.
The musket-flints for the military posts were supplied from the capitol.
They do it yet; for although the flint-arm has gone out and the forts
have tumbled down, the decree hasn't been repealed--been overlooked
and forgotten, you see--and so the vacancies where old Ticonderoga and
others used to stand, still get their six quarts of gun-flints a year
just the same."
