"Wait in the next room, please; and leave your bundle here," said the
door-keeper, as he sat down comfortably in his own easy-chair in the
ante-chamber. He looked at the prince in severe surprise as the latter
settled himself in another chair alongside, with his bundle on his
knees.
"If you don't mind, I would rather sit here with you," said the prince;
"I should prefer it to sitting in there."
"Oh, but you can't stay here. You are a visitor--a guest, so to speak.
Is it the general himself you wish to see?"
The man evidently could not take in the idea of such a shabby-looking
visitor, and had decided to ask once more.
"Yes--I have business--" began the prince.
"I do not ask you what your business may be, all I have to do is to
announce you; and unless the secretary comes in here I cannot do that."
The man's suspicions seemed to increase more and more. The prince was
too unlike the usual run of daily visitors; and although the general
certainly did receive, on business, all sorts and conditions of men, yet
in spite of this fact the servant felt great doubts on the subject
of this particular visitor. The presence of the secretary as an
intermediary was, he judged, essential in this case.
"Surely you--are from abroad?" he inquired at last, in a confused sort
of way. He had begun his sentence intending to say, "Surely you are not
Prince Muishkin, are you?"
"Yes, straight from the train! Did not you intend to say, 'Surely you
are not Prince Muishkin?' just now, but refrained out of politeness?"
"H'm!" grunted the astonished servant.
"I assure you I am not deceiving you; you shall not have to answer for
me. As to my being dressed like this, and carrying a bundle, there's
nothing surprising in that--the fact is, my circumstances are not
particularly rosy at this moment."
"H'm!--no, I'm not afraid of that, you see; I have to announce you,
that's all. The secretary will be out directly-that is, unless you--yes,
that's the rub--unless you--come, you must allow me to ask you--you've
not come to beg, have you?"
"Oh dear no, you can be perfectly easy on that score. I have quite
another matter on hand."
"You must excuse my asking, you know. Your appearance led me to
think--but just wait for the secretary; the general is busy now, but the
secretary is sure to come out."
"Oh--well, look here, if I have some time to wait, would you mind
telling me, is there any place about where I could have a smoke? I have
my pipe and tobacco with me."
"_Smoke?_" said the man, in shocked but disdainful surprise, blinking his
eyes at the prince as though he could not believe his senses. "No, sir,
you cannot smoke here, and I wonder you are not ashamed of the very
suggestion. Ha, ha! a cool idea that, I declare!"
"Oh, I didn't mean in this room! I know I can't smoke here, of course.
I'd adjourn to some other room, wherever you like to show me to. You
see, I'm used to smoking a good deal, and now I haven't had a puff for
three hours; however, just as you like."
