JAMY.
I say gud-day, Captain Fluellen.
FLUELLEN.
God-den to your worship, good Captain James.
GOWER.
How now, Captain Macmorris! have you quit the mines?
Have the pioneers given o'er?
MACMORRIS.
By Chrish, la! 'tish ill done! The work ish give over, the
trompet sound the retreat. By my hand I swear, and my
father's soul, the work ish ill done; it ish give over. I would
have blowed up the town, so Chrish save me, la! in an hour.
O, 'tish ill done, 'tish ill done; by my hand, 'tish ill done!
FLUELLEN.
Captain Macmorris, I beseech you now, will you voutsafe me,
look you, a few disputations with you, as partly touching or
concerning the disciplines of the war, the Roman wars, in the way
of argument, look you, and friendly communication; partly to
satisfy my opinion, and partly for the satisfaction, look you, of
my mind, as touching the direction of the military discipline;
that is the point.
JAMY.
It sall be vary gud, gud feith, gud captains bath: and I sall
quit you with gud leve, as I may pick occasion; that sall I,
marry.
MACMORRIS.
It is no time to discourse, so Chrish save me. The day is hot,
and the weather, and the wars, and the King, and the Dukes.  It
is no time to discourse. The town is beseech'd, and the trumpet
call us to the breach, and we talk, and, be Chrish, do nothing.
'Tis shame for us all.  So God sa' me, 'tis shame to stand still;
it is shame, by my hand; and there is throats to be cut, and works
to be done; and there ish nothing done, so Chrish sa' me, la!
JAMY.
By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves to slomber,
I'll de gud service, or I'll lig i' the grund for it; ay, or go to
death; and I'll pay't as valorously as I may, that sall I suerly do,
that is the breff and the long. Marry, I wad full fain heard some
question 'tween you tway.
FLUELLEN.
Captain Macmorris, I think, look you, under your correction, there
is not many of your nation--
MACMORRIS.
Of my nation! What ish my nation? Ish a villain, and a bastard,
and a knave, and a rascal? What ish my nation? Who talks of my
nation?
FLUELLEN.
Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is meant, Captain
Macmorris, peradventure I shall think you do not use me with that
affability as in discretion you ought to use me, look you, being
as good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of war, and in
the derivation of my birth, and in other particularities.
MACMORRIS.
I do not know you so good a man as myself.  So Chrish save me,
I will cut off your head.
GOWER.
Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
JAMY.
Ah! that's a foul fault.
[A parley [sounded.]
GOWER.
The town sounds a parley.
FLUELLEN.
Captain Macmorris, when there is more better opportunity to be
required, look you, I will be so bold as to tell you I know the
disciplines of war; and there is an end.
