As to young girls, he had never thought much about them since his early
love for the girl who had become Mrs. Leath. That episode seemed, as
he looked back on it, to bear no more relation to reality than a pale
decorative design to the confused richness of a summer landscape. He
no longer understood the violent impulses and dreamy pauses of his own
young heart, or the inscrutable abandonments and reluctances of hers. He
had known a moment of anguish at losing her--the mad plunge of youthful
instincts against the barrier of fate; but the first wave of stronger
sensation had swept away all but the outline of their story, and the
memory of Anna Summers had made the image of the young girl sacred, but
the class uninteresting.
Such generalisations belonged, however, to an earlier stage of his
experience. The more he saw of life the more incalculable he found
it; and he had learned to yield to his impressions without feeling
the youthful need of relating them to others. It was the girl in the
opposite seat who had roused in him the dormant habit of comparison.
She was distinguished from the daughters of wealth by her avowed
acquaintance with the real business of living, a familiarity as
different as possible from their theoretical proficiency; yet it seemed
to Darrow that her experience had made her free without hardness and
self-assured without assertiveness.
The rush into Amiens, and the flash of the station lights into their
compartment, broke Miss Viner's sleep, and without changing her position
she lifted her lids and looked at Darrow. There was neither surprise nor
bewilderment in the look. She seemed instantly conscious, not so much
of where she was, as of the fact that she was with him; and that fact
seemed enough to reassure her. She did not even turn her head to look
out; her eyes continued to rest on him with a vague smile which appeared
to light her face from within, while her lips kept their sleepy droop.
Shouts and the hurried tread of travellers came to them through the
confusing cross-lights of the platform. A head appeared at the window,
and Darrow threw himself forward to defend their solitude; but the
intruder was only a train hand going his round of inspection. He passed
on, and the lights and cries of the station dropped away, merged in a
wider haze and a hollower resonance, as the train gathered itself up
with a long shake and rolled out again into the darkness.
Miss Viner's head sank back against the cushion, pushing out a dusky
wave of hair above her forehead. The swaying of the train loosened a
lock over her ear, and she shook it back with a movement like a boy's,
while her gaze still rested on her companion.
"You're not too tired?"
She shook her head with a smile.
"We shall be in before midnight. We're very nearly on time." He verified
the statement by holding up his watch to the lamp.
