Algernon.  My letters!  But, my own sweet Cecily, I have never written
you any letters.
Cecily.  You need hardly remind me of that, Ernest.  I remember only too
well that I was forced to write your letters for you.  I wrote always
three times a week, and sometimes oftener.
Algernon.  Oh, do let me read them, Cecily?
Cecily.  Oh, I couldn't possibly.  They would make you far too conceited.
[Replaces box.]  The three you wrote me after I had broken off the
engagement are so beautiful, and so badly spelled, that even now I can
hardly read them without crying a little.
Algernon.  But was our engagement ever broken off?
Cecily.  Of course it was.  On the 22nd of last March.  You can see the
entry if you like. [Shows diary.]  'To-day I broke off my engagement with
Ernest.  I feel it is better to do so.  The weather still continues
charming.'
Algernon.  But why on earth did you break it off?  What had I done?  I
had done nothing at all.  Cecily, I am very much hurt indeed to hear you
broke it off.  Particularly when the weather was so charming.
Cecily.  It would hardly have been a really serious engagement if it
hadn't been broken off at least once.  But I forgave you before the week
was out.
Algernon.  [Crossing to her, and kneeling.]  What a perfect angel you
are, Cecily.
Cecily.  You dear romantic boy.  [He kisses her, she puts her fingers
through his hair.]  I hope your hair curls naturally, does it?
Algernon.  Yes, darling, with a little help from others.
Cecily.  I am so glad.
Algernon.  You'll never break off our engagement again, Cecily?
Cecily.  I don't think I could break it off now that I have actually met
you.  Besides, of course, there is the question of your name.
Algernon.  Yes, of course.  [Nervously.]
Cecily.  You must not laugh at me, darling, but it had always been a
girlish dream of mine to love some one whose name was Ernest.  [Algernon
rises, Cecily also.]  There is something in that name that seems to
inspire absolute confidence.  I pity any poor married woman whose husband
is not called Ernest.
Algernon.  But, my dear child, do you mean to say you could not love me
if I had some other name?
Cecily.  But what name?
Algernon.  Oh, any name you like--Algernon--for instance . . .
Cecily.  But I don't like the name of Algernon.
Algernon.  Well, my own dear, sweet, loving little darling, I really
can't see why you should object to the name of Algernon.  It is not at
all a bad name.  In fact, it is rather an aristocratic name.  Half of the
chaps who get into the Bankruptcy Court are called Algernon.  But
seriously, Cecily . . . [Moving to her] . . . if my name was Algy,
couldn't you love me?
Cecily.  [Rising.]  I might respect you, Ernest, I might admire your
character, but I fear that I should not be able to give you my undivided
attention.
