"I am not likely to be robbed," said one of them. "I am more afraid of
stealing myself."
"It would not be a good idea to rob me. The devil! I should pay the man
out."
"But what would you do, you are only a convict? We have no other name.
You will see that she will rob you, the wretch, without even saying,
'Thank you.' The money I gave her was wasted. Just fancy, she was here a
few days ago! Where were we to go? Shall I ask permission to go into the
house of Theodore, the executioner? He has still his house in the
suburb, the one he bought from that Solomon, you know, that scurvy Jew
who hung himself not long since."
"Yes, I know him, the one who sold liquor here three years ago, and who
was called Grichka--the secret-drinking shop."
"I know."
"_All_ brag. You don't know. In the first place it is another drinking
shop."
"What do you mean, another? You don't know what you are talking about. I
will bring you as many witnesses as you like."
"Oh, you will bring them, will you? Who are you? Do you know to whom you
are speaking?"
"Yes, indeed."
"I have often thrashed you, though I don't boast of it. Do not give
yourself airs then."
"You have thrashed me? The man who will thrash me is not yet born; and
the man who did thrash me is six feet beneath the ground."
"Plague-stricken rascal of Bender?"
"May the Siberian leprosy devour you with ulcers!"
"May a chopper cleave your dog of a head."
Insults were falling about like rain.
"Come, now, they are going to fight. When men have not been able to
conduct themselves properly they should keep silent. They are too glad
to come and eat the Government bread, the rascals!"
They were soon separated. Let them fight with the tongue as much as they
wish. That is permitted. It is a diversion at the service of every one;
but no blows. It is, indeed, only in extraordinary cases that blows were
exchanged. If a fight took place, information was given to the Major,
who ordered an inquiry or directed one himself; and then woe to the
convicts. Accordingly they set their faces against anything like a
serious quarrel; besides, they insulted one another chiefly to pass the
time, as an oratorical exercise. They get excited; the quarrel takes a
furious, ferocious character; they seem about to slaughter one another.
Nothing of the kind takes place. As soon as their anger has reached a
certain pitch they separate.
That astonished me much, and if I relate some of the conversations
between the convicts, I do so with a purpose. Could I have imagined that
people could have insulted one another for pleasure, that they could
find enjoyment in it?
We must not forget the gratification of vanity. A dialectician, who
knows how to insult artistically, is respected. A little more, and he
would be applauded like an actor.
