As to a chair, or anything of that kind for helping Mrs. Peerybingle
into the cart, you know very little of John, if you think _that_ was
necessary. Before you could have seen him lift her from the ground,
there she was in her place, fresh and rosy, saying, "John! How _can_
you? Think of Tilly!"
If I might be allowed to mention a young lady's legs on any terms, I
would observe of Miss Slowboy's that there was a fatality about them
which rendered them singularly liable to be grazed; and that she never
effected the smallest ascent or descent without recording the
circumstance upon them with a notch, as Robinson Crusoe marked the days
upon his wooden calendar. But, as this might be considered ungenteel,
I'll think of it.
"John! You've got the basket with the Veal and Ham Pie and things, and
the bottles of Beer?" said Dot. "If you haven't you must turn round
again this very minute."
"You're a nice little article," returned the Carrier, "to be talking
about turning round, after keeping me a full quarter of an hour behind
my time."
"I am sorry for it, John," said Dot in a great bustle, "but I really
could not think of going to Bertha's--I would not do it, John, on any
account--without the Veal and Ham Pie and things, and the bottles of
Beer. Way!"
This monosyllable was addressed to the horse, who didn't mind it at all.
"Oh, _do_ way, John!" said Mrs. Peerybingle. "Please!"
"It'll be time enough to do that," returned John, "when I begin to leave
things behind me. The basket's safe enough."
"What a hard-hearted monster you must be, John, not to have said so at
once, and save me such a turn! I declare I wouldn't go to Bertha's
without the Veal and Ham Pie and things, and the bottles of Beer, for
any money. Regularly once a fortnight ever since we have been married,
John, have we made our little Picnic there. If anything was to go wrong
with it, I should almost think we were never to be lucky again."
"It was a kind thought in the first instance," said the Carrier; "and I
honour you for it, little woman."
"My dear John!" replied Dot, turning very red. "Don't talk about
honouring _me_. Good gracious!"
"By-the-bye"--observed the Carrier--"that old gentleman----"
Again so visibly and instantly embarrassed!
"He's an odd fish," said the Carrier, looking straight along the road
before them. "I can't make him out. I don't believe there's any harm in
him."
"None at all. I'm--I'm sure there's none at all."
"Yes," said the Carrier, with his eyes attracted to her face by the
great earnestness of her manner. "I am glad you feel so certain of it,
because it's a confirmation to me. It's curious that he should have
taken it into his head to ask leave to go on lodging with us; an't it?
Things come about so strangely."
"So very strangely," she rejoined in a low voice, scarcely audible.
