We had among us cobblers, bootmakers, tailors, masons, locksmiths, and
gilders. A Jew named Esau Boumstein was at the same time a jeweller and
a usurer. Every one worked, and thus gained a few pence--for many orders
came from the town. Money is a tangible resonant liberty, inestimable
for a man entirely deprived of true liberty. If he feels some money in
his pocket, he consoles himself a little, even though he cannot spend
it--but one can always and everywhere spend money, the more so as
forbidden fruit is doubly sweet. One can often buy spirits in the
convict prison. Although pipes are severely forbidden, every one smokes.
Money and tobacco save the convicts from the scurvy, as work saves them
from crime--for without work they would mutually have destroyed one
another like spiders shut up in a close bottle. Work and money were all
the same forbidden. Often during the night severe examinations were
made, during which everything that was not legally authorised was
confiscated. However successfully the little hoards had been concealed,
they were sometimes discovered. That was one of the reasons why they
were not kept very long. They were exchanged as soon as possible for
drink, which explains how it happened that spirits penetrated into the
convict prison. The delinquent was not only deprived of his hoard, but
was also cruelly flogged.
A short time after each examination the convicts procured again the
objects which had been confiscated, and everything went on as before.
The administration knew it; and although the condition of the convicts
was a good deal like that of the inhabitants of Vesuvius, they never
murmured at the punishment inflicted for these peccadilloes. Those who
had no manual skill did business somehow or other. The modes of buying
and selling were original enough. Things changed hands which no one
expected a convict would ever have thought of selling or buying, or even
of regarding as of any value whatever. The least rag had its value, and
might be turned to account. In consequence, however, of the poverty of
the convicts, money acquired in their eyes a superior value to that
really belonging to it.
Long and painful tasks, sometimes of a very complicated kind, brought
back a few kopecks. Several of the prisoners lent by the week, and did
good business that way. The prisoner who was ruined and insolvent
carried to the usurer the few things belonging to him and pledged them
for some halfpence, which were lent to him at a fabulous rate of
interest. If he did not redeem them at the fixed time the usurer sold
them pitilessly by auction, and without the least delay.
Usury flourished so well in our convict prison that money was lent even
on things belonging to the Government: linen, boots, etc.--things that
were wanted at every moment. When the lender accepted such pledges the
affair took an unexpected turn. The proprietor went, immediately after
he had received his money, and told the under officer--chief
superintendent of the convict prison--that objects belonging to the
State were being concealed, on which everything was taken away from the
usurer without even the formality of a report to the superior
administration. But never was there any quarrel--and that is very
curious indeed--between the usurer and the owner. The first gave up in
silence, with a morose air, the things demanded from him, as if he had
been waiting for the request. Sometimes, perhaps, he confessed to
himself that, in the place of the borrower, he would not have acted
differently. Accordingly, if he was insulted after this restitution, it
was less from hatred than simply as a matter of conscience.
