"When all was ready, I sent Angeit, and the faithful ones whom I
had fed privily, through the village to call assembly.  And the
tribe gathered on a great space of beaten snow before my door, with
the meat caches towering stilt-legged in the rear.  Moosu came
also, standing on the inner edge of the circle opposite me,
confident that I had some scheme afoot, and prepared at the first
break to down me.  But I arose, giving him salutation before all
men.
"'O Moosu, thou blessed of God,' I began, 'doubtless thou hast
wondered in that I have called this convocation together; and
doubtless, because of my many foolishnesses, art thou prepared for
rash sayings and rash doings.  Not so.  It has been said, that
those the gods would destroy they first make mad.  And I have been
indeed mad.  I have crossed thy will, and scoffed at thy authority,
and done divers evil and wanton things.  Wherefore, last night a
vision was vouchsafed me, and I have seen the wickedness of my
ways.  And thou stoodst forth like a shining star, with brows
aflame, and I knew in mine own heart thy greatness.  I saw all
things clearly.  I knew that thou didst command the ear of God, and
that when you spoke he listened.  And I remembered that whatever of
the good deeds that I had done, I had done through the grace of
God, and the grace of Moosu.
"'Yes, my children,' I cried, turning to the people, 'whatever
right I have done, and whatever good I have done, have been because
of the counsel of Moosu.  When I listened to him, affairs
prospered; when I closed my ears, and acted according to my folly,
things came to folly.  By his advice it was that I laid my store of
meat, and in time of darkness fed the famishing.  By his grace it
was that I was made chief.  And what have I done with my chiefship?
Let me tell you.  I have done nothing.  My head was turned with
power, and I deemed myself greater than Moosu, and, behold I have
come to grief.  My rule has been unwise, and the gods are angered.
Lo, ye are pinched with famine, and the mothers are dry-breasted,
and the little babies cry through the long nights.  Nor do I, who
have hardened my heart against Moosu, know what shall be done, nor
in what manner of way grub shall be had.'
"At this there was nodding and laughing, and the people put their
heads together, and I knew they whispered of the loaves and fishes.
I went on hastily.  'So I was made aware of my foolishness and of
Moosu's wisdom; of my own unfitness and of Moosu's fitness.  And
because of this, being no longer mad, I make acknowledgment and
rectify evil.  I did cast unrighteous eyes upon Kluktu, and lo, she
was sealed to Moosu.  Yet is she mine, for did I not pay to
Tummasook the goods of purchase?  But I am well unworthy of her,
and she shall go from the igloo of her father to the igloo of
Moosu.  Can the moon shine in the sunshine?  And further, Tummasook
shall keep the goods of purchase, and she be a free gift to Moosu,
whom God hath ordained her rightful lord.
