“Not quite,” said Mr. Tetterby, “as yet.”
“Well!  I’ll tell you the whole truth,” pursued his wife, penitently,
“and then perhaps you will.  I felt all this, so much, when I was
trudging about in the cold, and when I saw a lot of other calculating
faces and large baskets trudging about, too, that I began to think
whether I mightn’t have done better, and been happier, if—I—hadn’t—” the
wedding-ring went round again, and Mrs. Tetterby shook her downcast head
as she turned it.
“I see,” said her husband quietly; “if you hadn’t married at all, or if
you had married somebody else?”
“Yes,” sobbed Mrs. Tetterby.  “That’s really what I thought.  Do you hate
me now, ’Dolphus?”
“Why no,” said Mr. Tetterby.  “I don’t find that I do, as yet.”
Mrs. Tetterby gave him a thankful kiss, and went on.
“I begin to hope you won’t, now, ’Dolphus, though I’m afraid I haven’t
told you the worst.  I can’t think what came over me.  I don’t know
whether I was ill, or mad, or what I was, but I couldn’t call up anything
that seemed to bind us to each other, or to reconcile me to my fortune.
All the pleasures and enjoyments we had ever had—_they_ seemed so poor
and insignificant, I hated them.  I could have trodden on them.  And I
could think of nothing else, except our being poor, and the number of
mouths there were at home.”
“Well, well, my dear,” said Mr. Tetterby, shaking her hand encouragingly,
“that’s truth, after all.  We _are_ poor, and there _are_ a number of
mouths at home here.”
“Ah! but, Dolf, Dolf!” cried his wife, laying her hands upon his neck,
“my good, kind, patient fellow, when I had been at home a very little
while—how different!  Oh, Dolf, dear, how different it was!  I felt as if
there was a rush of recollection on me, all at once, that softened my
hard heart, and filled it up till it was bursting.  All our struggles for
a livelihood, all our cares and wants since we have been married, all the
times of sickness, all the hours of watching, we have ever had, by one
another, or by the children, seemed to speak to me, and say that they had
made us one, and that I never might have been, or could have been, or
would have been, any other than the wife and mother I am.  Then, the
cheap enjoyments that I could have trodden on so cruelly, got to be so
precious to me—Oh so priceless, and dear!—that I couldn’t bear to think
how much I had wronged them; and I said, and say again a hundred times,
how could I ever behave so, ’Dolphus, how could I ever have the heart to
do it!”
The good woman, quite carried away by her honest tenderness and remorse,
was weeping with all her heart, when she started up with a scream, and
ran behind her husband.  Her cry was so terrified, that the children
started from their sleep and from their beds, and clung about her.  Nor
did her gaze belie her voice, as she pointed to a pale man in a black
cloak who had come into the room.
