I was surprised, you may be sure, at the bounty of a man that had but a
little while ago been my terror, and had torn the goods out of my house
like a fury; but I considered that my distresses had mollified his
temper, and that he had afterwards been so compassionate as to give me
leave to live rent free in the house a whole year.
But now he put on the face, not of a man of compassion only, but of a
man of friendship and kindness, and this was so unexpected that it was
surprising. We chatted together, and were, as I may call it, cheerful,
which was more than I could say I had been for three years before. He
sent for wine and beer too, for I had none; poor Amy and I had drank
nothing but water for many weeks, and indeed I have often wondered at
the faithful temper of the poor girl, for which I but ill requited her
at last.
When Amy was come with the wine, he made her fill a glass to him, and
with the glass in his hand he came to me and kissed me, which I was, I
confess, a little surprised at, but more at what followed; for he told
me, that as the sad condition which I was reduced to had made him pity
me, so my conduct in it, and the courage I bore it with, had given him a
more than ordinary respect for me, and made him very thoughtful for my
good; that he was resolved for the present to do something to relieve
me, and to employ his thoughts in the meantime, to see if he could for
the future put me into a way to support myself.
While he found me change colour, and look surprised at his discourse,
for so I did, to be sure, he turns to my maid Amy, and looking at her,
he says to me, "I say all this, madam, before your maid, because both
she and you shall know that I have no ill design, and that I have, in
mere kindness, resolved to do something for you if I can; and as I have
been a witness of the uncommon honesty and fidelity of Mrs. Amy here to
you in all your distresses, I know she may be trusted with so honest a
design as mine is; for I assure you, I bear a proportioned regard to
your maid too, for her affection to you."
Amy made him a curtsey, and the poor girl looked so confounded with joy
that she could not speak, but her colour came and went, and every now
and then she blushed as red as scarlet, and the next minute looked as
pale as death. Well, having said this, he sat down, made me sit down,
and then drank to me, and made me drink two glasses of wine together;
"For," says he, "you have need of it;" and so indeed I had. When he had
done so, "Come, Amy," says he, "with your mistress's leave, you shall
have a glass too." So he made her drink two glasses also; and then
rising up, "And now, Amy," says he, "go and get dinner; and you, madam,"
says he to me, "go up and dress you, and come down and smile and be
merry;" adding, "I'll make you easy if I can;" and in the meantime, he
said, he would walk in the garden.
