"I waited and gave good advice to the faithful ones till Angeit
returned.  Moosu was on the sled, and I saw by the fingermarks on
his face that his womankind had done well by him.  But he tumbled
off and fell in the snow at my feet, crying:  'O master, thou wilt
forgive Moosu, thy servant, for the wrong things he has done!  Thou
art a great man!  Surely wilt thou forgive!'
"'Call me "brother," Moosu--call me "brother,"' I chided, lifting
him to his feet with the toe of my moccasin.  'Wilt thou evermore
obey?'
"'Yea, master,' he whimpered, 'evermore.'
"'Then dispose thy body, so, across the sled,' I shifted the
dogwhip to my right hand.  'And direct thy face downwards, toward
the snow.  And make haste, for we journey south this day.'  And
when he was well fixed I laid the lash upon him, reciting, at every
stroke, the wrongs he had done me. 'This for thy disobedience in
general--whack!  And this for thy disobedience in particular--
whack! whack!  And this for Esanetuk!  And this for thy soul's
welfare!  And this for the grace of thy authority!  And this for
Kluktu!  And this for thy rights God-given!  And this for thy fat
firstlings!  And this and this for thy income-tax and thy loaves
and fishes!  And this for all thy disobedience!  And this, finally,
that thou mayest henceforth walk softly and with understanding!
Now cease thy sniffling and get up!  Gird on thy snowshoes and go
to the fore and break trail for the dogs.  CHOOK!  MUSH-ON!  Git!'"
Thomas Stevens smiled quietly to himself as he lighted his fifth
cigar and sent curling smoke-rings ceilingward.
"But how about the people of Tattarat?" I asked.  "Kind of rough,
wasn't it, to leave them flat with famine?"
And he answered, laughing, between two smoke-rings, "Were there not
the fat dogs?"
THE FAITH OF MEN
"Tell you what we'll do; we'll shake for it."
"That suits me," said the second man, turning, as he spoke, to the
Indian that was mending snow-shoes in a corner of the cabin.
"Here, you Billebedam, take a run down to Oleson's cabin like a
good fellow, and tell him we want to borrow his dice box."
This sudden request in the midst of a council on wages of men,
wood, and grub surprised Billebedam.  Besides, it was early in the
day, and he had never known white men of the calibre of Pentfield
and Hutchinson to dice and play till the day's work was done.  But
his face was impassive as a Yukon Indian's should be, as he pulled
on his mittens and went out the door.
Though eight o'clock, it was still dark outside, and the cabin was
lighted by a tallow candle thrust into an empty whisky bottle.  It
stood on the pine-board table in the middle of a disarray of dirty
tin dishes.  Tallow from innumerable candles had dripped down the
long neck of the bottle and hardened into a miniature glacier.  The
small room, which composed the entire cabin, was as badly littered
as the table; while at one end, against the wall, were two bunks,
one above the other, with the blankets turned down just as the two
men had crawled out in the morning.
