“Oh dear no, sir!” cried Milly, giving it back again.  “Worse and worse!
Couldn’t be dreamed of!”
Such a staid matter-of-fact housewife she was, and so unruffled by the
momentary haste of this rejection, that, an instant afterwards, she was
tidily picking up a few leaves which had strayed from between her
scissors and her apron, when she had arranged the holly.
Finding, when she rose from her stooping posture, that Mr. Redlaw was
still regarding her with doubt and astonishment, she quietly
repeated—looking about, the while, for any other fragments that might
have escaped her observation:
“Oh dear no, sir!  He said that of all the world he would not be known to
you, or receive help from you—though he is a student in your class.  I
have made no terms of secrecy with you, but I trust to your honour
completely.”
“Why did he say so?”
“Indeed I can’t tell, sir,” said Milly, after thinking a little, “because
I am not at all clever, you know; and I wanted to be useful to him in
making things neat and comfortable about him, and employed myself that
way.  But I know he is poor, and lonely, and I think he is somehow
neglected too.—How dark it is!”
The room had darkened more and more.  There was a very heavy gloom and
shadow gathering behind the Chemist’s chair.
“What more about him?” he asked.
“He is engaged to be married when he can afford it,” said Milly, “and is
studying, I think, to qualify himself to earn a living.  I have seen, a
long time, that he has studied hard and denied himself much.—How very
dark it is!”
“It’s turned colder, too,” said the old man, rubbing his hands.  “There’s
a chill and dismal feeling in the room.  Where’s my son William?
William, my boy, turn the lamp, and rouse the fire!”
Milly’s voice resumed, like quiet music very softly played:
“He muttered in his broken sleep yesterday afternoon, after talking to
me” (this was to herself) “about some one dead, and some great wrong done
that could never be forgotten; but whether to him or to another person, I
don’t know.  Not _by_ him, I am sure.”
“And, in short, Mrs. William, you see—which she wouldn’t say herself, Mr.
Redlaw, if she was to stop here till the new year after this next one—”
said Mr. William, coming up to him to speak in his ear, “has done him
worlds of good!  Bless you, worlds of good!  All at home just the same as
ever—my father made as snug and comfortable—not a crumb of litter to be
found in the house, if you were to offer fifty pound ready money for
it—Mrs. William apparently never out of the way—yet Mrs. William
backwards and forwards, backwards and forwards, up and down, up and down,
a mother to him!”
The room turned darker and colder, and the gloom and shadow gathering
behind the chair was heavier.
“Not content with this, sir, Mrs. William goes and finds, this very
night, when she was coming home (why it’s not above a couple of hours
ago), a creature more like a young wild beast than a young child,
shivering upon a door-step.  What does Mrs. William do, but brings it
home to dry it, and feed it, and keep it till our old Bounty of food and
flannel is given away, on Christmas morning!  If it ever felt a fire
before, it’s as much as ever it did; for it’s sitting in the old Lodge
chimney, staring at ours as if its ravenous eyes would never shut again.
It’s sitting there, at least,” said Mr. William, correcting himself, on
reflection, “unless it’s bolted!”
