‘Wrong every way.  Wrong every way!’ said Trotty, clasping his hands.
‘Born bad.  No business here!’
The Chimes came clashing in upon him as he said the words.  Full, loud,
and sounding—but with no encouragement.  No, not a drop.
‘The tune’s changed,’ cried the old man, as he listened.  ‘There’s not a
word of all that fancy in it.  Why should there be?  I have no business
with the New Year nor with the old one neither.  Let me die!’
Still the Bells, pealing forth their changes, made the very air spin.
Put ’em down, Put ’em down!  Good old Times, Good old Times!  Facts and
Figures, Facts and Figures!  Put ’em down, Put ’em down!  If they said
anything they said this, until the brain of Toby reeled.
He pressed his bewildered head between his hands, as if to keep it from
splitting asunder.  A well-timed action, as it happened; for finding the
letter in one of them, and being by that means reminded of his charge, he
fell, mechanically, into his usual trot, and trotted off.
CHAPTER II—The Second Quarter.
The letter Toby had received from Alderman Cute, was addressed to a great
man in the great district of the town.  The greatest district of the
town.  It must have been the greatest district of the town, because it
was commonly called ‘the world’ by its inhabitants.  The letter
positively seemed heavier in Toby’s hand, than another letter.  Not
because the Alderman had sealed it with a very large coat of arms and no
end of wax, but because of the weighty name on the superscription, and
the ponderous amount of gold and silver with which it was associated.
‘How different from us!’ thought Toby, in all simplicity and earnestness,
as he looked at the direction.  ‘Divide the lively turtles in the bills
of mortality, by the number of gentlefolks able to buy ’em; and whose
share does he take but his own!  As to snatching tripe from anybody’s
mouth—he’d scorn it!’
With the involuntary homage due to such an exalted character, Toby
interposed a corner of his apron between the letter and his fingers.
‘His children,’ said Trotty, and a mist rose before his eyes; ‘his
daughters—Gentlemen may win their hearts and marry them; they may be
happy wives and mothers; they may be handsome like my darling M-e-’.
He couldn’t finish the name.  The final letter swelled in his throat, to
the size of the whole alphabet.
‘Never mind,’ thought Trotty.  ‘I know what I mean.  That’s more than
enough for me.’  And with this consolatory rumination, trotted on.
It was a hard frost, that day.  The air was bracing, crisp, and clear.
The wintry sun, though powerless for warmth, looked brightly down upon
the ice it was too weak to melt, and set a radiant glory there.  At other
times, Trotty might have learned a poor man’s lesson from the wintry sun;
but, he was past that, now.
The Year was Old, that day.  The patient Year had lived through the
reproaches and misuses of its slanderers, and faithfully performed its
work.  Spring, summer, autumn, winter.  It had laboured through the
destined round, and now laid down its weary head to die.  Shut out from
hope, high impulse, active happiness, itself, but active messenger of
many joys to others, it made appeal in its decline to have its toiling
days and patient hours remembered, and to die in peace.  Trotty might
have read a poor man’s allegory in the fading year; but he was past that,
now.
