Having thus given a brief account of the poems comprised in Pope's
design, I will now proceed to make a few remarks on his translation,
and on my own purpose in the present edition.
Pope was not a Grecian. His whole education had been irregular, and
his earliest acquaintance with the poet was through the version of
Ogilby.  It is not too much to say that his whole work bears the
impress of a disposition to be satisfied with the general sense,
rather than to dive deeply into the minute and delicate features of
language. Hence his whole work is to be looked upon rather as an
elegant paraphrase than a translation. There are, to be sure, certain
conventional anecdotes, which prove that Pope consulted various
friends, whose classical attainments were sounder than his own,
during the undertaking; but it is probable that these examinations
were the result rather of the contradictory versions already
existing, than of a desire to make a perfect transcript of the
original. And in those days, what is called literal translation was
less cultivated than at present. If something like the general sense
could be decorated with the easy gracefulness of a practised poet; if
the charms of metrical cadence and a pleasing fluency could be made
consistent with a fair interpretation of the poet's meaning, his
words were less jealously sought for, and those who could read so
good a poem as Pope's Iliad had fair reason to be satisfied.
It would be absurd, therefore, to test Pope's translation by our own
advancing knowledge of the original text. We must be content to look
at it as a most delightful work in itself,--a work which is as much a
part of English literature as Homer himself is of Greek. We must not
be torn from our kindly associations with the old Iliad, that once
was our most cherished companion, or our most looked-for prize,
merely because Buttmann, Loewe, and Liddell have made us so much more
accurate as to /amphikipellon/ being an adjective, and not a
substantive. Far be it from us to defend the faults of Pope,
especially when we think of Chapman's fine, bold, rough old
English;--far be it from us to hold up his translation as what a
translation of Homer might be. But we can still dismiss Pope's Iliad
to the hands of our readers, with the consciousness that they must
have read a very great number of books before they have read its
fellow.
        THEODORE ALOIS BUCKLEY.
Christ Church.
THE ODYSSEY OF HOMER
BOOK I
ARGUMENT.
MINERVA'S DESCENT TO ITHACA.
The poem opens within forty eight days of the arrival of Ulysses
in his dominions. He had now remained seven years in the Island of
Calypso, when the gods assembled in council, proposed the method
of his departure from thence and his return to his native country.
For this purpose it is concluded to send Mercury to Calypso, and
Pallas immediately descends to Ithaca. She holds a conference with
Telemachus, in the shape of Mantes, king of Taphians; in which she
advises him to take a journey in quest of his father Ulysses, to
Pylos and Sparta, where Nestor and Menelaus yet reigned; then,
after having visibly displayed her divinity, disappears. The
suitors of Penelope make great entertainments, and riot in her
palace till night. Phemius sings to them the return of the
Grecians, till Penelope puts a stop to the song. Some words arise
between the suitors and Telemachus, who summons the council to
meet the day following.
