"Now that all was ready, I spoke to Moosu.  'Go forth,' I said, 'to
the chief men of the village, and give them greeting, and bid them
come into my igloo and sleep the night away with me and the gods.'
"The brew was singing merrily when they began shoving aside the
skin flap and crawling in, and I was heaping cracked ice on the
gun-barrel.  Out of the priming hole at the far end, drip, drip,
drip into the iron pot fell the liquor--HOOCH, you know.  But
they'd never seen the like, and giggled nervously when I made
harangue about its virtues.  As I talked I noted the jealousy in
the shaman's eye, so when I had done, I placed him side by side
with Tummasook and the woman Ipsukuk.  Then I gave them to drink,
and their eyes watered and their stomachs warmed, till from being
afraid they reached greedily for more; and when I had them well
started, I turned to the others.  Tummasook made a brag about how
he had once killed a polar bear, and in the vigour of his pantomime
nearly slew his mother's brother.  But nobody heeded.  The woman
Ipsukuk fell to weeping for a son lost long years agone in the ice,
and the shaman made incantation and prophecy.  So it went, and
before morning they were all on the floor, sleeping soundly with
the gods.
"The story tells itself, does it not?  The news of the magic potion
spread.  It was too marvellous for utterance.  Tongues could tell
but a tithe of the miracles it performed.  It eased pain, gave
surcease to sorrow, brought back old memories, dead faces, and
forgotten dreams.  It was a fire that ate through all the blood,
and, burning, burned not.  It stoutened the heart, stiffened the
back, and made men more than men.  It revealed the future, and gave
visions and prophecy.  It brimmed with wisdom and unfolded secrets.
There was no end of the things it could do, and soon there was a
clamouring on all hands to sleep with the gods.  They brought their
warmest furs, their strongest dogs, their best meats; but I sold
the hooch with discretion, and only those were favoured that
brought flour and molasses and sugar.  And such stores poured in
that I set Moosu to build a cache to hold them, for there was soon
no space in the igloo.  Ere three days had passed Tummasook had
gone bankrupt.  The shaman, who was never more than half drunk
after the first night, watched me closely and hung on for the
better part of the week.  But before ten days were gone, even the
woman Ipsukuk exhausted her provisions, and went home weak and
tottery.
"But Moosu complained.  'O master,' he said, 'we have laid by great
wealth in molasses and sugar and flour, but our shack is yet mean,
our clothes thin, and our sleeping furs mangy.  There is a call of
the belly for meat the stench of which offends not the stars, and
for tea such as Tummasook guzzles, and there is a great yearning
for the tobacco of Neewak, who is shaman and who plans to destroy
us.  I have flour until I am sick, and sugar and molasses without
stint, yet is the heart of Moosu sore and his bed empty.'
