In the street he was seized with a sudden apprehension. What if he were
to meet Flamel? The thought was intolerable. He called a cab and drove
straight to the station where, amid the palm-leaf fans of a perspiring
crowd, he waited a long half-hour for his train to start.
He had thrust a volume in either pocket and in the train he dared not
draw them out; but the detested words leaped at him from the folds of
the evening paper. The air seemed full of Margaret Aubyn's name. The
motion of the train set it dancing up and down on the page of a magazine
that a man in front of him was reading....
At the door he was told that Mrs. Glennard was still out, and he went
upstairs to his room and dragged the books from his pocket. They lay
on the table before him like live things that he feared to touch.... At
length he opened the first volume. A familiar letter sprang out at
him, each word quickened by its glaring garb of type. The little broken
phrases fled across the page like wounded animals in the open.... It was
a horrible sight.... A battue of helpless things driven savagely out of
shelter. He had not known it would be like this....
He understood now that, at the moment of selling the letters, he had
viewed the transaction solely as it affected himself: as an unfortunate
blemish on an otherwise presentable record. He had scarcely considered
the act in relation to Margaret Aubyn; for death, if it hallows,
also makes innocuous. Glennard's God was a god of the living, of the
immediate, the actual, the tangible; all his days he had lived in the
presence of that god, heedless of the divinities who, below the surface
of our deeds and passions, silently forge the fatal weapons of the dead.
VII
A knock roused him and looking up he saw his wife. He met her glance in
silence, and she faltered out, "Are you ill?"
The words restored his self-possession. "Ill? Of course not. They told
me you were out and I came upstairs."
The books lay between them on the table; he wondered when she would see
them. She lingered tentatively on the threshold, with the air of leaving
his explanation on his hands. She was not the kind of woman who could be
counted on to fortify an excuse by appearing to dispute it.
"Where have you been?" Glennard asked, moving forward so that he
obstructed her vision of the books.
"I walked over to the Dreshams for tea."
"I can't think what you see in those people," he said with a shrug;
adding, uncontrollably--"I suppose Flamel was there?"
"No; he left on the yacht this morning."
An answer so obstructing to the natural escape of his irritation left
Glennard with no momentary resource but that of strolling impatiently to
the window. As her eyes followed him they lit on the books.
"Ah, you've brought them! I'm so glad," she exclaimed.
