"To starve for six or seven years, Mr. Warden," said Snitchey, "would be
very uncommon indeed. You might get another estate by shewing yourself,
the while. But we don't think you could do it--speaking for Self and
Craggs--and consequently don't advise it."
"What _do_ you advise?"
"Nursing, I say," repeated Snitchey. "Some few years of nursing by Self
and Craggs would bring it round. But to enable us to make terms, and
hold terms, and you to keep terms, you must go away, you must live
abroad. As to starvation, we could ensure you some hundreds a year to
starve upon, even in the beginning, I dare say, Mr. Warden."
"Hundreds," said the client. "And I have spent thousands!"
"That," retorted Mr. Snitchey, putting the papers slowly back into the
cast-iron box, "there is no doubt about. No doubt a--bout," he repeated
to himself, as he thoughtfully pursued his occupation.
The lawyer very likely knew his man; at any rate his dry, shrewd,
whimsical manner, had a favourable influence upon the client's moody
state, and disposed him to be more free and unreserved. Or perhaps the
client knew _his_ man; and had elicited such encouragement as he had
received, to render some purpose he was about to disclose the more
defensible in appearance. Gradually raising his head, he sat looking at
his immovable adviser with a smile, which presently broke into a laugh.
"After all," he said, "my iron-headed friend--"
Mr. Snitchey pointed out his partner. "Self and--excuse me--Craggs."
"I beg Mr. Craggs's pardon," said the client. "After all, my iron-headed
friends," he leaned forward in his chair, and dropped his voice a
little, "you don't know half my ruin yet."
Mr. Snitchey stopped and stared at him. Mr. Craggs also stared.
"I am not only deep in debt," said the client "but I am deep in--"
"Not in love!" cried Snitchey.
"Yes!" said the client, falling back in his chair, and surveying the
Firm with his hands in his pockets. "Deep in love."
"And not with an heiress, Sir?" said Snitchey.
"Not with an heiress."
"Nor a rich lady?"
"Nor a rich lady that I know of--except in beauty and merit."
"A single lady, I trust?" said Mr. Snitchey, with great expression.
"Certainly."
"It's not one of Doctor Jeddler's daughters?" said Snitchey, suddenly
squaring his elbows on his knees, and advancing his face at least a
yard.
"Yes!" returned the client.
"Not his younger daughter?" said Snitchey.
"Yes!" returned the client.
"Mr. Craggs," said Snitchey, much relieved, "will you oblige me with
another pinch of snuff? Thank you. I am happy to say it don't signify,
Mr. Warden; she's engaged, Sir, she's bespoke. My partner can
corroborate me. We know the fact."
"We know the fact," repeated Craggs.
"Why, so do I perhaps," returned the client quietly. "What of that? Are
you men of the world, and did you never hear of a woman changing her
mind?"
"There certainly have been actions for breach," said Mr. Snitchey,
"brought against both spinsters and widows, but in the majority of
cases--"
