I laughed at him, and told him I did not know what I might come to
hereafter, but as our case was now, I should make no scruple to take the
first ship I came at to get our liberty; I only wished we could see one,
and come at her. Just while we were talking, one of our men that was at
the door of our hut, told us that the carpenter, who it seems was upon a
hill at a distance, cried out, "A sail! a sail!"
We all turned out immediately; but, though it was very clear weather,
we could see nothing; but the carpenter continuing to halloo to us, "A
sail! a sail!" away we run up the hill, and there we saw a ship plainly;
but it was at a very great distance, too far for us to make any signal
to her. However, we made a fire upon the hill, with all the wood we
could get together, and made as much smoke as possible. The wind was
down, and it was almost calm; but as we thought, by a perspective glass
which the gunner had in his pocket, her sails were full, and she stood
away large with the wind at E.N.E., taking no notice of our signal, but
making for the Cape de Bona Speranza; so we had no comfort from her.
We went, therefore, immediately to work about our intended canoe; and,
having singled out a very large tree to our minds, we fell to work with
her; and having three good axes among us, we got it down, but it was
four days' time first, though we worked very hard too. I do not remember
what wood it was, or exactly what dimensions, but I remember that it was
a very large one, and we were as much encouraged when we launched it,
and found it swam upright and steady, as we would have been at another
time if we had had a good man-of-war at our command.
She was so very large, that she carried us all very, very easily, and
would have carried two or three tons of baggage with us; so that we
began to consult about going to sea directly to Goa; but many other
considerations checked that thought, especially when we came to look
nearer into it; such as want of provisions, and no casks for fresh
water; no compass to steer by; no shelter from the breach of the high
sea, which would certainly founder us; no defence from the heat of the
weather, and the like; so that they all came readily into my project, to
cruise about where we were, and see what might offer.
Accordingly, to gratify our fancy, we went one day all out to sea in her
together, and we were in a very fair way to have had enough of it;
for when she had us all on board, and that we were gotten about half
a league to sea, there happening to be a pretty high swell of the sea,
though little or no wind, yet she wallowed so in the sea, that we all of
us thought she would at last wallow herself bottom up; so we set all
to work to get her in nearer the shore, and giving her fresh way in the
sea, she swam more steady, and with some hard work we got her under the
land again.
