The talk that followed was quick and abbreviated to terms of
understanding between two men who knew. Grass was the subject. Mention
was made of the winter rainfall and of the chance for late spring rains
to come. Names occurred, such as the Little Coyote and Los Cuatos
creeks, the Yolo and the Miramar hills, the Big Basin, Round Valley,
and the San Anselmo and Los Banos ranges. Movements of herds and
droves, past, present, and to come, were discussed, as well as the
outlook for cultivated hay in far upland pastures and the estimates of
such hay that still remained over the winter in remote barns in the
sheltered mountain valleys where herds had wintered and been fed.
Under the oaks, at the stamping posts, Forrest was saved the trouble of
tying the Man-Eater. A stableman came on the run to take the mare, and
Forrest, scarce pausing for a word about a horse by the name of Duddy,
was clanking his spurs into the Big House.
CHAPTER III
Forrest entered a section of the Big House by way of a massive,
hewn-timber, iron-studded door that let in at the foot of what seemed a
donjon keep. The floor was cement, and doors let off in various
directions. One, opening to a Chinese in the white apron and starched
cap of a chef, emitted at the same time the low hum of a dynamo. It was
this that deflected Forrest from his straight path. He paused, holding
the door ajar, and peered into a cool, electric-lighted cement room
where stood a long, glass-fronted, glass-shelved refrigerator flanked
by an ice-machine and a dynamo. On the floor, in greasy overalls,
squatted a greasy little man to whom his employer nodded.
"Anything wrong, Thompson?" he asked.
"There _was,"_ was the answer, positive and complete.
Forrest closed the door and went on along a passage that was like a
tunnel. Narrow, iron-barred openings, like the slits for archers in
medieval castles, dimly lighted the way. Another door gave access to a
long, low room, beam-ceilinged, with a fireplace in which an ox could
have been roasted. A huge stump, resting on a bed of coals, blazed
brightly. Two billiard tables, several card tables, lounging corners,
and a miniature bar constituted the major furnishing. Two young men
chalked their cues and returned Forrest's greeting.
"Good morning, Mr. Naismith," he bantered. "--More material for the
_Breeders' Gazette?"_
Naismith, a youngish man of thirty, with glasses, smiled sheepishly and
cocked his head at his companion.
"Wainwright challenged me," he explained.
"Which means that Lute and Ernestine must still be beauty-sleeping,"
Forrest laughed.
Young Wainwright bristled to acceptance of the challenge, but before he
could utter the retort on his lips his host was moving on and
addressing Naismith over his shoulder.
"Do you want to come along at eleven:thirty? Thayer and I are running
out in the machine to look over the Shropshires. He wants about ten
carloads of rams. You ought to find good stuff in this matter of Idaho
shipments. Bring your camera along.--Seen Thayer this morning?"
