"I have given a margin of half an hour," said he. "If that is her trap,
she must be making for the earlier train. I fear, Watson, that she will
be past Charlington before we can possibly meet her."
From the instant that we passed the rise, we could no longer see the
vehicle, but we hastened onward at such a pace that my sedentary life
began to tell upon me, and I was compelled to fall behind. Holmes,
however, was always in training, for he had inexhaustible stores of
nervous energy upon which to draw. His springy step never slowed until
suddenly, when he was a hundred yards in front of me, he halted, and I
saw him throw up his hand with a gesture of grief and despair. At the
same instant an empty dog-cart, the horse cantering, the reins trailing,
appeared round the curve of the road and rattled swiftly towards us.
"Too late, Watson, too late!" cried Holmes, as I ran panting to his
side. "Fool that I was not to allow for that earlier train! It's
abduction, Watson--abduction! Murder! Heaven knows what! Block the road!
Stop the horse! That's right. Now, jump in, and let us see if I can
repair the consequences of my own blunder."
We had sprung into the dog-cart, and Holmes, after turning the horse,
gave it a sharp cut with the whip, and we flew back along the road. As
we turned the curve, the whole stretch of road between the Hall and the
heath was opened up. I grasped Holmes's arm.
"That's the man!" I gasped. A solitary cyclist was coming towards us.
His head was down and his shoulders rounded, as he put every ounce of
energy that he possessed on to the pedals. He was flying like a racer.
Suddenly he raised his bearded face, saw us close to him, and pulled
up, springing from his machine. That coal-black beard was in singular
contrast to eyes were as bright as if he had a fever. He stared at us
and at the dog-cart. Then a look of amazement came over his face.
"Halloa! Stop there!" he shouted, holding his bicycle to block our road.
"Where did you get that dog-cart? Pull up, man!" he yelled, drawing a
pistol from his side "Pull up, I say, or, by George, I'll put a bullet
into your horse."
Holmes threw the reins into my lap and sprang down from the cart.
"You're the man we want to see. Where is Miss Violet Smith?" he said, in
his quick, clear way.
"That's what I'm asking you. You're in her dog-cart. You ought to know
where she is."
"We met the dog-cart on the road. There was no one in it. We drove back
to help the young lady."
"Good Lord! Good Lord! What shall I do?" cried the stranger, in an
ecstasy of despair. "They've got her, that hell-hound Woodley and the
blackguard parson. Come, man, come, if you really are her friend. Stand
by me and we'll save her, if I have to leave my carcass in Charlington
Wood."
