I repeat; the contagion of suspicion and fear was among us, and there is
no such contagion under the sky.  The women (their noses in a chronic
state of excoriation from smelling-salts) were always primed and loaded
for a swoon, and ready to go off with hair-triggers.  The two elder
detached the Odd Girl on all expeditions that were considered doubly
hazardous, and she always established the reputation of such adventures
by coming back cataleptic.  If Cook or Streaker went overhead after dark,
we knew we should presently hear a bump on the ceiling; and this took
place so constantly, that it was as if a fighting man were engaged to go
about the house, administering a touch of his art which I believe is
called The Auctioneer, to every domestic he met with.
It was in vain to do anything.  It was in vain to be frightened, for the
moment in one’s own person, by a real owl, and then to show the owl.  It
was in vain to discover, by striking an accidental discord on the piano,
that Turk always howled at particular notes and combinations.  It was in
vain to be a Rhadamanthus with the bells, and if an unfortunate bell rang
without leave, to have it down inexorably and silence it.  It was in vain
to fire up chimneys, let torches down the well, charge furiously into
suspected rooms and recesses.  We changed servants, and it was no better.
The new set ran away, and a third set came, and it was no better.  At
last, our comfortable housekeeping got to be so disorganised and
wretched, that I one night dejectedly said to my sister: “Patty, I begin
to despair of our getting people to go on with us here, and I think we
must give this up.”
My sister, who is a woman of immense spirit, replied, “No, John, don’t
give it up.  Don’t be beaten, John.  There is another way.”
“And what is that?” said I.
“John,” returned my sister, “if we are not to be driven out of this
house, and that for no reason whatever, that is apparent to you or me, we
must help ourselves and take the house wholly and solely into our own
hands.”
“But, the servants,” said I.
“Have no servants,” said my sister, boldly.
Like most people in my grade of life, I had never thought of the
possibility of going on without those faithful obstructions.  The notion
was so new to me when suggested, that I looked very doubtful.  “We know
they come here to be frightened and infect one another, and we know they
are frightened and do infect one another,” said my sister.
“With the exception of Bottles,” I observed, in a meditative tone.
(The deaf stable-man.  I kept him in my service, and still keep him, as a
phenomenon of moroseness not to be matched in England.)
“To be sure, John,” assented my sister; “except Bottles.  And what does
that go to prove?  Bottles talks to nobody, and hears nobody unless he is
absolutely roared at, and what alarm has Bottles ever given, or taken!
None.”
