And so the world received animals, mortal and immortal, and was
fulfilled with them, and became a visible God, comprehending the
visible, made in the image of the Intellectual, being the one perfect
only-begotten heaven.
Section 2.
Nature in the aspect which she presented to a Greek philosopher of the
fourth century before Christ is not easily reproduced to modern eyes.
The associations of mythology and poetry have to be added, and the
unconscious influence of science has to be subtracted, before we can
behold the heavens or the earth as they appeared to the Greek. The
philosopher himself was a child and also a man--a child in the range of
his attainments, but also a great intelligence having an insight into
nature, and often anticipations of the truth. He was full of original
thoughts, and yet liable to be imposed upon by the most obvious
fallacies. He occasionally confused numbers with ideas, and atoms
with numbers; his a priori notions were out of all proportion to his
experience. He was ready to explain the phenomena of the heavens by the
most trivial analogies of earth. The experiments which nature worked for
him he sometimes accepted, but he never tried experiments for himself
which would either prove or disprove his theories. His knowledge was
unequal; while in some branches, such as medicine and astronomy, he had
made considerable proficiency, there were others, such as chemistry,
electricity, mechanics, of which the very names were unknown to him.
He was the natural enemy of mythology, and yet mythological ideas still
retained their hold over him. He was endeavouring to form a conception
of principles, but these principles or ideas were regarded by him as
real powers or entities, to which the world had been subjected. He was
always tending to argue from what was near to what was remote, from what
was known to what was unknown, from man to the universe, and back again
from the universe to man. While he was arranging the world, he was
arranging the forms of thought in his own mind; and the light from
within and the light from without often crossed and helped to confuse
one another. He might be compared to a builder engaged in some great
design, who could only dig with his hands because he was unprovided with
common tools; or to some poet or musician, like Tynnichus (Ion), obliged
to accommodate his lyric raptures to the limits of the tetrachord or of
the flute.
The Hesiodic and Orphic cosmogonies were a phase of thought intermediate
between mythology and philosophy and had a great influence on the
beginnings of knowledge. There was nothing behind them; they were to
physical science what the poems of Homer were to early Greek history.
They made men think of the world as a whole; they carried the mind back
into the infinity of past time; they suggested the first observation
of the effects of fire and water on the earth's surface. To the ancient
physics they stood much in the same relation which geology does to
modern science. But the Greek was not, like the enquirer of the last
generation, confined to a period of six thousand years; he was able to
speculate freely on the effects of infinite ages in the production of
physical phenomena. He could imagine cities which had existed time
out of mind (States.; Laws), laws or forms of art and music which had
lasted, 'not in word only, but in very truth, for ten thousand years'
(Laws); he was aware that natural phenomena like the Delta of the Nile
might have slowly accumulated in long periods of time (Hdt.). But he
seems to have supposed that the course of events was recurring rather
than progressive. To this he was probably led by the fixedness of
Egyptian customs and the general observation that there were other
civilisations in the world more ancient than that of Hellas.
