Enter Steward, with many billes in his hand.
  Stew. No care, no stop, so senselesse of expence,
That he will neither know how to maintaine it,
Nor cease his flow of Riot. Takes no accompt
How things go from him, nor resume no care
Of what is to continue: neuer minde,
Was to be so vnwise, to be so kinde.
What shall be done, he will not heare, till feele:
I must be round with him, now he comes from hunting.
Fye, fie, fie, fie.
Enter Caphis, Isidore, and Varro.
  Cap. Good euen Varro: what, you come for money?
  Var. Is't not your businesse too?
  Cap. It is, and yours too, Isidore?
  Isid. It is so
   Cap. Would we were all discharg'd
   Var. I feare it,
  Cap. Heere comes the Lord.
Enter Timon, and his Traine
   Tim. So soone as dinners done, wee'l forth againe
My Alcibiades. With me, what is your will?
  Cap. My Lord, heere is a note of certaine dues
   Tim. Dues? whence are you?
  Cap. Of Athens heere, my Lord
   Tim. Go to my Steward
   Cap. Please it your Lordship, he hath put me off
To the succession of new dayes this moneth:
My Master is awak'd by great Occasion,
To call vpon his owne, and humbly prayes you,
That with your other Noble parts, you'l suite,
In giuing him his right
   Tim. Mine honest Friend,
I prythee but repaire to me next morning
   Cap. Nay, good my Lord
   Tim. Containe thy selfe, good Friend
   Var. One Varroes seruant, my good Lord
   Isid. From Isidore, he humbly prayes your speedy payment
   Cap. If you did know my Lord, my Masters wants
   Var. 'Twas due on forfeyture my Lord, sixe weekes,
and past
   Isi. Your Steward puts me off my Lord, and I
Am sent expressely to your Lordship
   Tim. Giue me breath:
I do beseech you good my Lords keepe on,
Ile waite vpon you instantly. Come hither: pray you
How goes the world, that I am thus encountred
With clamorous demands of debt, broken Bonds,
And the detention of long since due debts
Against my Honor?
  Stew. Please you Gentlemen,
The time is vnagreeable to this businesse:
Your importunacie cease, till after dinner,
That I may make his Lordship vnderstand
Wherefore you are not paid
   Tim. Do so my Friends, see them well entertain'd
   Stew. Pray draw neere.
Enter.
Enter Apemantus and Foole.
  Caph. Stay, stay, here comes the Foole with Apemantus,
let's ha some sport with 'em
   Var. Hang him, hee'l abuse vs
   Isid. A plague vpon him dogge
   Var. How dost Foole?
  Ape. Dost Dialogue with thy shadow?
  Var. I speake not to thee
   Ape. No 'tis to thy selfe. Come away
   Isi. There's the Foole hangs on your backe already
   Ape. No thou stand'st single, th'art not on him yet
   Cap. Where's the Foole now?
  Ape. He last ask'd the question. Poore Rogues, and
Vsurers men, Bauds betweene Gold and want
   Al. What are we Apemantus?
  Ape. Asses
   All. Why?
  Ape. That you ask me what you are, & do not know
your selues. Speake to 'em Foole
