Exit
  Ser. Excellent: Your Lordships a goodly Villain: the
diuell knew not what he did, when hee made man Politicke;
he crossed himselfe by't: and I cannot thinke, but
in the end, the Villanies of man will set him cleere. How
fairely this Lord striues to appeare foule? Takes Vertuous
Copies to be wicked: like those, that vnder hotte ardent
zeale, would set whole Realmes on fire, of such a nature
is his politike loue.
This was my Lords best hope, now all are fled
Saue onely the Gods. Now his Friends are dead,
Doores that were ne're acquainted with their Wards
Many a bounteous yeere, must be imploy'd
Now to guard sure their Master:
And this is all a liberall course allowes,
Who cannot keepe his wealth, must keep his house.
Enter.
Enter Varro's man, meeting others. All Timons Creditors to wait
for his
comming out. Then enter Lucius and Hortensius.
  Var.man. Well met, goodmorrow Titus & Hortensius
  Tit. The like to you kinde Varro
   Hort. Lucius, what do we meet together?
  Luci. I, and I think one businesse do's command vs all.
For mine is money
   Tit. So is theirs, and ours.
Enter Philotus.
  Luci. And sir Philotus too
   Phil. Good day at once
   Luci. Welcome good Brother.
What do you thinke the houre?
  Phil. Labouring for Nine
   Luci. So much?
  Phil. Is not my Lord seene yet?
  Luci. Not yet
   Phil. I wonder on't, he was wont to shine at seauen
   Luci. I, but the dayes are waxt shorter with him:
You must consider, that a Prodigall course
Is like the Sunnes, but not like his recouerable, I feare:
'Tis deepest Winter in Lord Timons purse, that is: One
may reach deepe enough, and yet finde little
   Phil. I am of your feare, for that
   Tit. Ile shew you how t' obserue a strange euent:
Your Lord sends now for Money?
  Hort. Most true, he doe's
   Tit. And he weares Iewels now of Timons guift,
For which I waite for money
   Hort. It is against my heart
   Luci. Marke how strange it showes,
Timon in this, should pay more then he owes:
And e'ne as if your Lord should weare rich Iewels,
And send for money for 'em
   Hort. I'me weary of this Charge,
The Gods can witnesse:
I know my Lord hath spent of Timons wealth,
And now Ingratitude, makes it worse then stealth
   Varro. Yes, mine's three thousand Crownes:
What's yours?
  Luci. Fiue thousand mine
   Varro. 'Tis much deepe, and it should seem by th' sum
Your Masters confidence was aboue mine,
Else surely his had equall'd.
Enter Flaminius.
  Tit. One of Lord Timons men
   Luc. Flaminius? Sir, a word: Pray is my Lord readie
to come forth?
  Flam. No, indeed he is not
   Tit. We attend his Lordship: pray signifie so much
   Flam. I need not tell him that, he knowes you are too diligent.
Enter Steward in a Cloake, muffled.
  Luci. Ha: is not that his Steward muffled so?
He goes away in a Clowd: Call him, call him
