   Flam. Is't possible the world should so much differ,
And we aliue that liued? Fly damned basenesse
To him that worships thee
   Luc. Ha? Now I see thou art a Foole, and fit for thy
Master.
Exit L[ucullus].
  Flam. May these adde to the number y may scald thee:
Let moulten Coine be thy damnation,
Thou disease of a friend, and not himselfe:
Has friendship such a faint and milkie heart,
It turnes in lesse then two nights? O you Gods!
I feele my Masters passion. This Slaue vnto his Honor,
Has my Lords meate in him:
Why should it thriue, and turne to Nutriment,
When he is turn'd to poyson?
O may Diseases onely worke vpon't:
And when he's sicke to death, let not that part of Nature
Which my Lord payd for, be of any power
To expell sicknesse, but prolong his hower.
Enter.
Enter Lucius, with three strangers.
  Luc. Who the Lord Timon? He is my very good friend
and an Honourable Gentleman
   1 We know him for no lesse, thogh we are but strangers
to him. But I can tell you one thing my Lord, and
which I heare from common rumours, now Lord Timons
happie howres are done and past, and his estate shrinkes
from him
   Lucius. Fye no, doe not beleeue it: hee cannot want
for money
   2 But beleeue you this my Lord, that not long agoe,
one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus, to borrow so
many Talents, nay vrg'd extreamly for't, and shewed
what necessity belong'd too't, and yet was deny'de
   Luci. How?
  2 I tell you, deny'de my Lord
   Luci. What a strange case was that? Now before the
Gods I am asham'd on't. Denied that honourable man?
There was verie little Honour shew'd in't. For my owne
part, I must needes confesse, I haue receyued some small
kindnesses from him, as Money, Plate, Iewels, and such
like Trifles; nothing comparing to his: yet had hee mistooke
him, and sent to me, I should ne're haue denied his
Occasion so many Talents.
Enter Seruilius.
  Seruil. See, by good hap yonders my Lord, I haue
swet to see his Honor. My Honor'd Lord
   Lucil. Seruilius? You are kindely met sir. Farthewell,
commend me to thy Honourable vertuous Lord, my very
exquisite Friend
   Seruil. May it please your Honour, my Lord hath
sent-
  Luci. Ha? what ha's he sent? I am so much endeered
to that Lord; hee's euer sending: how shall I thank him
think'st thou? And what has he sent now?
  Seruil. Has onely sent his present Occasion now my
Lord: requesting your Lordship to supply his instant vse
with so many Talents
   Lucil. I know his Lordship is but merry with me,
He cannot want fifty fiue hundred Talents
   Seruil. But in the mean time he wants lesse my Lord.
If his occasion were not vertuous,
I should not vrge it halfe so faithfully
   Luc. Dost thou speake seriously Seruilius?
  Seruil. Vpon my soule 'tis true Sir
