"Every cent of it."
"And you fellows got away with them?"
"As easy as nothing. I don't reckon the julery people know they've been
robbed yet. But it wouldn't be good sense to stay around St. Louis, of
course, so we considered where we'd go. One was for going one way, one
another, so we throwed up, heads or tails, and the Upper Mississippi
won. We done up the di'monds in a paper and put our names on it and put
it in the keep of the hotel clerk, and told him not to ever let either
of us have it again without the others was on hand to see it done; then
we went down town, each by his own self--because I reckon maybe we all
had the same notion. I don't know for certain, but I reckon maybe we
had."
"What notion?" Tom says.
"To rob the others."
"What--one take everything, after all of you had helped to get it?"
"Cert'nly."
It disgusted Tom Sawyer, and he said it was the orneriest, low-downest
thing he ever heard of. But Jake Dunlap said it warn't unusual in the
profession. Said when a person was in that line of business he'd got to
look out for his own intrust, there warn't nobody else going to do it
for him. And then he went on. He says:
"You see, the trouble was, you couldn't divide up two di'monds amongst
three. If there'd been three--But never mind about that, there warn't
three. I loafed along the back streets studying and studying. And I says
to myself, I'll hog them di'monds the first chance I get, and I'll have
a disguise all ready, and I'll give the boys the slip, and when I'm safe
away I'll put it on, and then let them find me if they can. So I got the
false whiskers and the goggles and this countrified suit of clothes,
and fetched them along back in a hand-bag; and when I was passing a shop
where they sell all sorts of things, I got a glimpse of one of my pals
through the window. It was Bud Dixon. I was glad, you bet. I says to
myself, I'll see what he buys. So I kept shady, and watched. Now what do
you reckon it was he bought?"
"Whiskers?" said I.
"No."
"Goggles?"
"No."
"Oh, keep still, Huck Finn, can't you, you're only just hendering all
you can. What WAS it he bought, Jake?"
"You'd never guess in the world. It was only just a screwdriver--just a
wee little bit of a screwdriver."
"Well, I declare! What did he want with that?"
"That's what I thought. It was curious. It clean stumped me. I says to
myself, what can he want with that thing? Well, when he come out I stood
back out of sight, and then tracked him to a second-hand slop-shop and
see him buy a red flannel shirt and some old ragged clothes--just the
ones he's got on now, as you've described. Then I went down to the wharf
and hid my things aboard the up-river boat that we had picked out, and
then started back and had another streak of luck. I seen our other pal
lay in HIS stock of old rusty second-handers. We got the di'monds and
went aboard the boat.
