   An. 'Tis not the first time I haue constrained one to
call me knaue. Begin foole: it begins, Hold thy peace
   Clo. I shall neuer begin if I hold my peace
   An. Good ifaith: Come begin.
Catch sung
Enter Maria.
  Mar. What a catterwalling doe you keepe heere? If
my Ladie haue not call'd vp her Steward Maluolio, and
bid him turne you out of doores, neuer trust me
   To. My Lady's a Catayan, we are politicians, Maluolios
a Peg-a-ramsie, and Three merry men be wee. Am not I
consanguinious? Am I not of her blood: tilly vally. Ladie,
There dwelt a man in Babylon, Lady, Lady
   Clo. Beshrew me, the knights in admirable fooling
   An. I, he do's well enough if he be dispos'd, and so
do I too: he does it with a better grace, but I do it more
naturall
   To. O the twelfe day of December
   Mar. For the loue o' God peace.
Enter Maluolio.
  Mal. My masters are you mad? Or what are you?
Haue you no wit, manners, nor honestie, but to gabble
like Tinkers at this time of night? Do yee make an Alehouse
of my Ladies house, that ye squeak out your Coziers
Catches without any mitigation or remorse of voice?
Is there no respect of place, persons, nor time in you?
  To. We did keepe time sir in our Catches. Snecke vp
   Mal. Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My Lady
bad me tell you, that though she harbors you as her kinsman,
she's nothing ally'd to your disorders. If you can
separate your selfe and your misdemeanors, you are welcome
to the house: if not, and it would please you to take
leaue of her, she is very willing to bid you farewell
   To. Farewell deere heart, since I must needs be gone
   Mar. Nay good Sir Toby
   Clo. His eyes do shew his dayes are almost done
   Mal. Is't euen so?
  To. But I will neuer dye
   Clo. Sir Toby there you lye
   Mal. This is much credit to you
   To. Shall I bid him go
   Clo. What and if you do?
  To. Shall I bid him go, and spare not?
  Clo. O no, no, no, no, you dare not
   To. Out o' tune sir, ye lye: Art any more then a Steward?
Dost thou thinke because thou art vertuous, there
shall be no more Cakes and Ale?
  Clo. Yes by S[aint]. Anne, and Ginger shall bee hotte y'th
mouth too
   To. Th'art i'th right. Goe sir, rub your Chaine with
crums. A stope of Wine Maria
   Mal. Mistris Mary, if you priz'd my Ladies fauour
at any thing more then contempt, you would not giue
meanes for this vnciuill rule; she shall know of it by this
hand.
Exit
  Mar. Go shake your eares
   An. 'Twere as good a deede as to drink when a mans
a hungrie, to challenge him the field, and then to breake
promise with him, and make a foole of him
