   Clo. Where good mistris Mary?
  Ma. In the warrs, & that may you be bolde to say in
your foolerie
   Clo. Well, God giue them wisedome that haue it: &
those that are fooles, let them vse their talents
   Ma. Yet you will be hang'd for being so long absent,
or to be turn'd away: is not that as good as a hanging to
you?
  Clo. Many a good hanging, preuents a bad marriage:
and for turning away, let summer beare it out
   Ma. You are resolute then?
  Clo. Not so neyther, but I am resolu'd on two points
  Ma. That if one breake, the other will hold: or if both
breake, your gaskins fall
   Clo. Apt in good faith, very apt: well go thy way, if
sir Toby would leaue drinking, thou wert as witty a piece
of Eues flesh, as any in Illyria
   Ma. Peace you rogue, no more o'that: here comes my
Lady: make your excuse wisely, you were best.
Enter Lady Oliuia, with Maluolio.
  Clo. Wit, and't be thy will, put me into good fooling:
those wits that thinke they haue thee, doe very oft proue
fooles: and I that am sure I lacke thee, may passe for a
wise man. For what saies Quinapalus, Better a witty foole,
then a foolish wit. God blesse thee Lady
   Ol. Take the foole away
   Clo. Do you not heare fellowes, take away the Ladie
   Ol. Go too, y'are a dry foole: Ile no more of you: besides
you grow dis-honest
   Clo. Two faults Madona, that drinke & good counsell
wil amend: for giue the dry foole drink, then is the foole
not dry: bid the dishonest man mend himself, if he mend,
he is no longer dishonest; if hee cannot, let the Botcher
mend him: any thing that's mended, is but patch'd: vertu
that transgresses, is but patcht with sinne, and sin that amends,
is but patcht with vertue. If that this simple
Sillogisme will serue, so: if it will not, what remedy?
As there is no true Cuckold but calamity, so beauties a
flower; The Lady bad take away the foole, therefore I
say againe, take her away
   Ol. Sir, I bad them take away you
   Clo. Misprision in the highest degree. Lady, Cucullus
non facit monachum: that's as much to say, as I weare not
motley in my braine: good Madona, giue mee leaue to
proue you a foole
   Ol. Can you do it?
  Clo. Dexteriously, good Madona
   Ol. Make your proofe
   Clo. I must catechize you for it Madona, Good my
Mouse of vertue answer mee
   Ol. Well sir, for want of other idlenesse, Ile bide your
proofe
   Clo. Good Madona, why mournst thou?
  Ol. Good foole, for my brothers death
   Clo. I thinke his soule is in hell, Madona
   Ol. I know his soule is in heauen, foole
   Clo. The more foole (Madona) to mourne for your
Brothers soule, being in heauen. Take away the Foole,
Gentlemen
   Ol. What thinke you of this foole Maluolio, doth he
not mend?
  Mal. Yes, and shall do, till the pangs of death shake
him: Infirmity that decaies the wise, doth euer make the
better foole
