   And. I, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in a
dam'd colour'd stocke. Shall we sit about some Reuels?
  To. What shall we do else: were we not borne vnder
Taurus?
  And. Taurus? That sides and heart
   To. No sir, it is leggs and thighes: let me see thee caper.
Ha, higher: ha, ha, excellent.
Exeunt.
Scena Quarta.
Enter Valentine, and Viola in mans attire.
  Val. If the Duke continue these fauours towards you
Cesario, you are like to be much aduanc'd, he hath known
you but three dayes, and already you are no stranger
   Vio. You either feare his humour, or my negligence,
that you call in question the continuance of his loue. Is
he inconstant sir, in his fauours
   Val. No beleeue me.
Enter Duke, Curio, and Attendants.
  Vio. I thanke you: heere comes the Count
   Duke. Who saw Cesario hoa?
  Vio. On your attendance my Lord heere
   Du. Stand you a-while aloofe. Cesario,
Thou knowst no lesse, but all: I haue vnclasp'd
To thee the booke euen of my secret soule.
Therefore good youth, addresse thy gate vnto her,
Be not deni'de accesse, stand at her doores,
And tell them, there thy fixed foot shall grow
Till thou haue audience
   Vio. Sure my Noble Lord,
If she be so abandon'd to her sorrow
As it is spoke, she neuer will admit me
   Du. Be clamorous, and leape all ciuill bounds,
Rather then make vnprofited returne,
  Vio. Say I do speake with her (my Lord) what then?
  Du. O then, vnfold the passion of my loue,
Surprize her with discourse of my deere faith;
It shall become thee well to act my woes:
She will attend it better in thy youth,
Then in a Nuntio's of more graue aspect
   Vio. I thinke not so, my Lord
   Du. Deere Lad, beleeue it;
For they shall yet belye thy happy yeeres,
That say thou art a man: Dianas lip
Is not more smooth, and rubious: thy small pipe
Is as the maidens organ, shrill, and sound,
And all is semblatiue a womans part.
I know thy constellation is right apt
For this affayre: some foure or fiue attend him,
All if you will: for I my selfe am best
When least in companie: prosper well in this,
And thou shalt liue as freely as thy Lord,
To call his fortunes thine
   Vio. Ile do my best
To woe your Lady: yet a barrefull strife,
Who ere I woe, my selfe would be his wife.
Exeunt.
Scena Quinta.
Enter Maria, and Clowne.
  Ma. Nay, either tell me where thou hast bin, or I will
not open my lippes so wide as a brissle may enter, in way
of thy excuse: my Lady will hang thee for thy absence
   Clo. Let her hang me: hee that is well hang'de in this
world, needs to feare no colours
   Ma. Make that good
   Clo. He shall see none to feare
   Ma. A good lenton answer: I can tell thee where y
saying was borne, of I feare no colours
