Then the Earth King was very sad and angry. He brought the shameful
winds before his court. "False and faithless winds," he said, in stern
and awful voice, "ye did not do my errand; ye were traitors to your
trust; great shall be your punishment. Nevermore shall ye be my
messengers, evermore shall ye be my slaves. Away from my sight!"
Then the faithless winds departed from before the face of the King, and
in shame and sorrow went moaning among the caves and the rocks by the
seaside, and sighing among the lonely pine trees in the wilderness, and
even to this day you may hear the echoes of their moans and sighs.
The Earth King was sorrowful, but not discouraged. Again he seized the
great paint brush, as big as a church steeple, dipped it into the red
and golden sunset light, and wrote in big letters high on the sky that
every one far and near could read:
    WANTED! MESSENGERS!
    FLEETER THAN HORSES,
    SWIFTER THAN MEN,
    TO CARRY MY MESSAGES,
    A MILLION TIMES TEN.
Then he went into his rainbow house and laid himself down on his rainbow
bed. He scarcely had taken forty winks when he heard a _rat-tat-tatting_
on the rainbow window and a _rap-rap-rapping_ on the rainbow door.
Quickly he leaped from his great bed.
"Who be ye?" he asked.
"We be messengers," came a gentle voice through the keyhole, "come to
serve the King."
Then he opened the door, and there before him flitted and twittered a
company of the most curious little people that he ever had set eyes
upon. They had each a pair of beady eyes, a little pointed nose, a set
of little scratchy toes, and the softest kind of a coat, fitting as snug
as ever the tailor could make it.
"What are your names?" asked the King.
"We are the birds, and our names are many. We saw the King's sign in the
sky and have come--
    _Fleeter than horses, swifter than men,
    To carry your messages, a million times ten."_
Then the King, remembering the Winds, addressed them in very deep and
solemn tones: "The task is a great one. The King's business is exceeding
grave and important. My messengers must be swift and faithful, must
remember my commands and keep my secrets. Are ye able?"
Each bird laid his little scratchy toes on his little pointed nose and
vowed that he would remember the King's commands and keep the King's
secrets.
"Then," said the King, "make ready. Far to the north dwells a people
that I love. For many a month they have lived amid ice and snow and the
bitter frosts. Now they sigh for warmer days, and I have heard them. I
am planning a delightful surprise for them. I am going to carry spring
to them. Go, find the warm sunshine and the soft south wind and bid them
come at once to the King's court, that I may take them and the spring
days to my suffering and discouraged people. Then return with all speed
to the King, and remember --do not betray my secret."
