"Silly birds," he said in scornful voice. "You vowed to keep my secrets.
You have broken your vow. You obeyed my commands and called the south
wind and the sunshine; so I cannot be too harsh with you. But you cannot
keep my secrets, so I cannot keep you as my messengers. Now and then I
may use you as my servants. Adieu!"
Then the birds flew sadly away as quietly and quickly as ever they
could, and set to work building their nests in holes in the trees and
holes in the ground and in out-of-the-way places, making such a
chattering meantime that neither they, nor any one else, could hear
themselves think.
By this time the Earth King was nearly discouraged. He did not know what
in the world to do. He rested his elbow on his knee and his great head
in his hand and thought and wondered. Then once again he rose and took
the great brush and wrote the same big words on the sky. And for very
weariness he lay down on a great bank of clouds and soon was sound
asleep. As he slept, the cloud grew bigger and bigger and blacker and
blacker, and the thunder came nearer and nearer until, all at once,
CRASH-CRASH--the cloud seemed torn to pieces and the King leaped to his
feet half-scared to death, even if he was a King. There before him,
darting this way and that way, and up and down, and across-ways, was a
swarm of little red-hot creatures that hissed and buzzed and cracked
like the Fourth of July.
"Who are you?" he asked in half-fright as he rubbed his eyes, "and what
do you want?"
"Messengers, messengers, messengers," whispered they all at once, "and
we have come to serve the King."
"What are your names?"
"We are the Lightning Spirits; sometimes men call us Electricity--
    _The swiftest creatures that are known to men,
    To carry your messages, a million times ten."_
The King charged them gravely and solemnly, as he had done the winds and
the birds before them, that his messengers must be true and faithful and
must keep his secrets. But no matter how great the task nor how heavy
the oaths with which he bound them to be faithful, they were eager, all
of them, to serve the King. Only he must build road-ways for them. They
had not wings to fly, and their feet were not accustomed to the highways
of the land. They might lose their way. So the King decided to try them.
He called his laborers and ordered them to erect tall poles, and from
pole to pole to lay slender roadways of wire. Miles and miles of these
roadways he built, over the hills and through the valleys. And when all
was complete, he called the spirits to him and whispered to them his
secret messages. Quick as thought they ran over the little roadways,
hither and thither, and back again, doing faithfully and well the King's
errands and keeping the King's secrets. They whispered never so much as
a word of them. So the Earth King called a great assembly, and before
them all appointed the Lightning Spirits to be his trusted messengers
for ever and a day.
