"Now look here, mamma; do you ask me this out of pure curiosity, or with
design? Tell me the truth."
"All I ask is, why does it appear to you to be so absurd?"
"Good heavens, mother, you'll drive me wild! What a fate!" cried Zina,
stamping her foot with impatience. "I'll tell you why, if you can't see
for yourself. Not to mention all the other evident absurdities of the
plan, to take advantage of the weakened wits of a poor old man, and
deceive him and marry him--an old cripple, in order to get hold of his
money,--and then every day and every hour to wish for his death, is, in my
opinion, not only nonsense, but so mean, _so_ mean, mamma, that I--I can't
congratulate you on your brilliant idea; that's all I can say!"
There was silence for one minute.
"Zina, do you remember all that happened two years ago?" asked Maria
Alexandrovna of a sudden.
Zina trembled.
"Mamma!" she said, severely, "you promised me solemnly never to mention
that again."
"And I ask you now, as solemnly, my dear child, to allow me to break that
promise, just once! I have never broken it before. Zina! the time has come
for a full and clear understanding between us! These two years of silence
have been terrible. We cannot go on like this. I am ready to pray you, on
my knees, to let me speak. Listen, Zina, your own mother who bore you
beseeches you, on her knees! And I promise you faithfully, Zina, and
solemnly, on the word of an unhappy but adoring mother, that never, under
any circumstances, not even to save my life, will I ever mention the
subject again. This shall be the last time, but it is absolutely
necessary!"
Maria Alexandrovna counted upon the effect of her words, and with reason:
"Speak, then!" said Zina, growing whiter every moment.
"Thank you, Zina!----Two years ago there came to the house, to teach your
little brother Mitya, since dead, a tutor----"
"Why do you begin so solemnly, mamma? Why all this eloquence, all these
quite unnecessary details, which are painful to me, and only too well
known to both of us?" cried Zina with a sort of irritated disgust.
"Because, my dear child, I, your mother, felt in some degree bound to
justify myself before you; and also because I wish to present this whole
question to you from an entirely new point of view, and not from that
mistaken position which you are accustomed to take up with regard to it;
and because, lastly, I think you will thus better understand the
conclusion at which I shall arrive upon the whole question. Do not think,
dear child, that I wish to trifle with your heart! No, Zina, you will find
in me a real mother; and perhaps, with tears streaming from your eyes, you
will ask and beseech at my feet--at the feet of the '_mean woman_,' as you
have just called me,--yes, and pray for that reconciliation which you have
rejected so long! That's why I wish to recall all, Zina, _all_ that has
happened, from the very beginning; and without this I shall not speak at
all!"
