"Ye--yes! quite so!" said the prince, delighted--as all old men are whose
senile chatter is listened to with servility. "But I like a fl--flunky to
look stupid; it gives them presence. There's my Terenty, now. You remember
Terenty, my friend? Well, the f--first time I ever looked at him I said,
'You shall be my ha--hall porter.' He's stupid, phen--phen--omenally stupid,
he looks like a she--sheep; but his dig--dignity and majesty are wonderful.
When I look at him he seems to be composing some l--learned dis--sertation.
He's just like the German philosopher, Kant, or like some fa--fat old
turkey, and that's just what one wants in a serving-man."
Maria Alexandrovna laughed, and clapped her hands in the highest state of
ecstasy; Paul supported her with all his might; Nastasia Petrovna laughed
too; and even Zina smiled.
"But, prince, how clever, how witty, how _humorous_ you are!" cried Maria
Alexandrovna. "What a wonderful gilt of remarking the smallest refinements
of character. And for a man like you to eschew all society, and shut
yourself up for five years! With such talents! Why, prince, you could
_write_, you could be an author. You could emulate Von Vezin, Gribojedoff,
Gogol!"
"Ye--yes! ye--yes!" said the delighted prince. "I can reproduce things I
see, very well. And, do you know, I used to be a very wi--witty fellow
indeed, some time ago. I even wrote a play once. There were some very
smart couplets, I remember; but it was never acted."
"Oh! how nice it would be to read it over, especially just _now_, eh,
Zina? for we are thinking of getting up a play, you must know, prince, for
the benefit of the 'martyrs of the Fatherland,' the wounded soldiers.
There, now, how handy your play would come in!"
"Certainly, certainly. I--I would even write you another. I think I've
quite forgotten the old one. I remember there were two or three such
epigrams that (here the prince kissed his own hand to convey an idea of
the exquisite wit of his lines) I recollect when I was abroad I made a
real furore. I remember Lord Byron well; we were great friends; you should
have seen him dance the mazurka one day during the Vienna Congress."
"Lord Byron, uncle?--Surely not!"
"Ye--yes, Lord Byron. Perhaps it was not Lord Byron, though, perhaps it was
someone else; no, it wasn't Lord Byron, it was some Pole; I remember now.
A won--der-ful fellow that Pole was! He said he was a C--Count, and he
turned out to be a c--cook--shop man! But he danced the mazurka
won--der--fully, and broke his leg at last. I recollect I wrote some lines
at the time:--
"Our little Pole
Danced like blazes."
--How did it go on, now? Wait a minute! No, I can't remember."
"I'll tell you, uncle. It must have been like this," said Paul, becoming
more and more inspired:--
"But he tripped in a hole,
Which stopped his crazes."
"Ye--yes, that was it, I think, or something very like it. I don't know,
though--perhaps it wasn't. Anyhow, the lines were very sm--art. I forget a
good deal of what I have seen and done. I'm so b--busy now!"
