"Yes. It was all just as I told you, Maria Alexandrovna!" begins
Mosgliakoff readily--delighted to repeat his story ten times over, if
required--"I had driven all night, and not slept a wink. You can imagine
what a hurry I was in to arrive here," he adds, turning to Zina; "in a
word, I swore at the driver, yelled for fresh horses, kicked up a row at
every post station: my adventures would fill a volume. Well, exactly at
six o'clock in the morning I arrived at the last station, Igishova.
'Horses, horses!' I shouted, 'let's have fresh horses quick; I'm not going
to get out.' I frightened the post-station man's wife out of her wits; she
had a small baby in her arms, and I have an idea that its mother's fright
will affect said baby's supply of the needful. Well, the sunrise was
splendid--fine frosty morning--lovely! but I hadn't time to look at
anything. I got my horses--I had to deprive some other traveller of his
pair; he was a professor, and we nearly fought a duel about it.
"They told me some prince had driven off a quarter of an hour ago. He had
slept here, and was driving his own horses; but I didn't attend to
anything. Well, just seven miles from town, at a turn of the road, I saw
that some surprising event had happened. A huge travelling carriage was
lying on its side; the coachman and two flunkeys stood outside it,
apparently dazed, while from inside the carriage came heart-rending
lamentations and cries. I thought I'd pass by and let them all be--; it was
no affair of mine: but humanity insisted, and would not take a denial. (I
think it is Heine says that humanity shoves its nose in everywhere!) So I
stopped; and my driver and myself, with the other fellows, lifted the
carriage on to its legs again, or perhaps I should say wheels, as it had
no legs.
"I thought to myself, 'This is that very prince they mentioned!' So, I
looked in. Good Heavens! it was our prince! Here was a meeting, if you
like! I yelled at him, 'Prince--uncle!' Of course he hardly knew me at the
first glance, but he very soon recognised me. At least, I don't believe he
knows who I am really, even _now_; I think he takes me for someone else,
not a relation. I saw him last seven years ago, as a boy; I remember
_him_, because he struck me so; but how was he to remember _me_? At all
events, I told him my name, and he embraced me ecstatically; and all the
while he himself was crying and trembling with fright. He really was
_crying_, I'll take my oath he was! I saw it with my own eyes.
"Well, we talked a bit, and at last I persuaded him to get into my trap
with me, and call in at Mordasoff, if only for one day, to rest and
compose his feelings. He told me that Stepanida Matveyevna had had a
letter from Moscow, saying that her father, or daughter, or both, with all
her family, were dying; and that she had wavered for a long time, and at
last determined to go away for ten days. The prince sat out one day, and
then another, and then a third, measuring wigs, and powdering and pomading
himself; then he grew sick of it, and determined to go and see an old
friend, a priest called Misael, who lived at the Svetozersk Hermitage.
Some of the household, being afraid of the great Stepanida's wrath,
opposed the prince's proposed journey; but the latter insisted, and
started last night after dinner. He slept at Igishova, and went off this
morning again, at sunrise. Just at the turn going down to the Reverend Mr.
Misael's, the carriage went over, and the prince was very nearly shot down
the ravine."
