"C--certainly, certainly! I've long meant to do it. I'm going to try
hy--hydropathy!"
"Hydropathy?"
"Yes. I've tried it once before: I was abroad, you know, and they
persuaded me to try drinking the wa--waters. There wasn't anything the
matter with me, but I agreed, just out of deli--delicacy for their
feelings; and I did seem to feel easier, somehow. So I drank, and drank,
and dra--ank up a whole waterfall; and I assure you if I hadn't fallen ill
just then I should have been quite well, th--thanks to the water! But, I
confess, you've frightened me so about these ma--maladies and things, I
feel quite put out. I'll come back d--directly!"
"Why, prince, where are you off to?" asked Maria Alexandrovna in surprise.
"Directly, directly. I'm just going to note down an i--idea!"
"What sort of idea?" cried Paul, bursting with laughter.
Maria Alexandrovna lost all patience.
"I cannot understand what you find to laugh at!" she cried, as the old man
disappeared; "to laugh at an honourable old man, and turn every word of
his into ridicule--presuming on his angelic good nature. I assure you I
_blushed_ for you, Paul Alexandrovitch! Why, what do you see in him to
laugh at? I never saw anything funny about him!"
"Well, I laugh because he does not recognise people, and talks such
nonsense!"
"That's simply the result of his sad life, of his dreadful five years'
captivity, under the guardianship of that she-devil! You should _pity_,
not laugh at him! He did not even know _me_; you saw it yourself. I tell
you it's a crying shame; he must be saved, at all costs! I recommend him
to go abroad so that he may get out of the clutches of that--beast of a
woman!"
"Do you know what--we must find him a wife!" cried Paul.
"Oh, Mr. Mosgliakoff, you are too bad; you really are too bad!"
"No, no, Maria Alexandrovna; I assure you, this time I'm speaking in all
seriousness. Why _not_ marry him off? Isn't it rather a brilliant idea?
What harm can marriage do him? On the contrary, he is in that position
that such a step alone can save him! In the first place, he will get rid
of that fox of a woman; and, secondly, he may find some girl, or better
still some widow--kind, good, wise and gentle, and poor, who will look
after him as his own daughter would, and who will be sensible of the
honour he does her in making her his wife! And what could be better for
the old fellow than to have such a person about him, rather than the--woman
he has now? Of course she must be nice-looking, for uncle appreciates good
looks; didn't you observe how he stared at Miss Zina?"
"But how will you find him such a bride?" asked Nastasia Petrovna, who had
listened intently to Paul's suggestion.
"What a question! Why, you yourself, if you pleased! and why not, pray? In
the first place, you are good-looking, you are a widow, you are generous,
you are poor (at least I don't think you are very rich). Then you are a
very reasonable woman: you'll learn to love him, and take good care of
him; you'll send that other woman to the deuce, and take your husband
abroad, where you will feed him on pudding and lollipops till the moment
of his quitting this wicked world, which will be in about a year, or in a
couple of months perhaps. After that, you emerge a princess, a rich widow,
and, as a prize for your goodness to the old gentleman, you'll marry a
fine young marquis, or a governor-general, or somebody of the sort!
There--that's a pretty enough prospect, isn't it?"
