CZARE. Father! have mercy on the people. Give them what they ask.
PRINCE PAUL. And begin, Sire, with your own head; they have a particular
liking for that.
CZAR. The people! the people! A tiger which I have let loose upon
myself; but I will fight with it to the death. [14]I am done with half
measures.[14] I shall crush these Nihilists at a blow. There shall not
be a man of them, ay, or a woman either, left alive in Russia. [15]Am I
Emperor for[15] nothing, that a woman should hold me at bay? Vera
Sabouroff shall be in my power, I swear it, before a week is ended,
[16]though I burn my whole city to find her.[16] She shall be flogged by
the knout, stifled in the fortress, strangled in the square!
CZARE. O God!
CZAR. For two years her hands have been clutching at my throat; for two
years she has made my life a hell; but I shall have revenge. Martial
law, Prince, martial law over the whole Empire; that will give me
revenge. A good measure, Prince, eh? a good measure.
PRINCE PAUL. And an economical one too, Sire. It would carry off your
surplus population in six months, and save you many expenses in courts
of justice; they will not be needed now.
CZAR. Quite right. There are too many people in Russia, too much money
spent on them, too much money in courts of justice. I'll shut them up.
CZARE. Sire, reflect before--
CZAR. When can you have the proclamations ready, Prince Paul?
PRINCE PAUL. They have been printed for the last six months, Sire. I
knew you would need them.
CZAR. That's good! That's very good! Let us begin at once. Ah, Prince,
if every king in Europe had a minister like you--
CZARE. There would be less kings in Europe than there are.
CZAR (_in frightened whisper, to PRINCE PAUL_). What does he mean? Do
you trust him? His prison hasn't cured him yet. Shall I banish him?
Shall I (_whispers_)...? The Emperor Paul did it. The Empress Catherine
there[17] (_points to picture on the wall_) did it. Why shouldn't I?
PRINCE PAUL. Your Majesty, there is no need for alarm. The Prince is a
very ingenuous young man. He pretends to be devoted to the people, and
lives in a palace; preaches socialism, and draws a salary that would
support a province. He'll find out one day that the best cure for
Republicanism is the Imperial crown, and will cut up the "bonnet rogue"
of Democracy to make decorations for his Prime Minister.
CZAR. You are right. If he really loved the people, he could not be my
son.
PRINCE PAUL. If he lived with the people for a fortnight, their bad
dinners would soon cure him of his democracy. Shall we begin, Sire?
CZAR. At once. Read the proclamation. Gentlemen, be seated. Alexis,
Alexis, I say, come and hear it! It will be good practice for you; you
will be doing it yourself some day.
