Miss Nellie Mason Auten, a graduate student of the department of
sociology at the University of Chicago, recently made a thorough
investigation of the garment trades of Chicago.  Her figures were
published in the American Journal of Sociology, and commented upon by the
Literary Digest.  She found women working ten hours a day, six days a
week, for forty cents per week (a rate of two-thirds of a cent an hour).
Many women earned less than a dollar a week, and none of them worked
every week.  The following table will best summarize Miss Auten's
investigations among a portion of the garment-workers:
INDUSTRY          AVERAGE           AVERAGE NUMBER    AVERAGE YEARLY
                  INDIVIDUAL        OF WEEKS          EARNINGS
                  WEEKLY WAGES      EMPLOYED
Dressmakers       $.90              42.               $37.00
Pants-Finishers   1.31              27.58             42.41
Housewives and    1.58              30.21             47.49
Pants-Finishers
Seamstresses      2.03              32.78             64.10
Pants-makers      2.13              30.77             75.61
Miscellaneous     2.77              29.               81.80
Tailors           6.22              31.96             211.92
General           2.48              31.18             76.74
Averages
Walter A. Wyckoff, who is as great an authority upon the worker as Josiah
Flynt is on the tramp, furnishes the following Chicago experience:
    "Many of the men were so weakened by the want and hardship of the
    winter that they were no longer in condition for effective labor.
    Some of the bosses who were in need of added hands were obliged to
    turn men away because of physical incapacity.  One instance of this I
    shall not soon forget.  It was when I overheard, early one morning at
    a factory gate, an interview between a would-be laborer and the boss.
    I knew the applicant for a Russian Jew, who had at home an old mother
    and a wife and two young children to support.  He had had
    intermittent employment throughout the winter in a sweater's den, {5}
    barely enough to keep them all alive, and, after the hardships of the
    cold season, he was again in desperate straits for work.
    "The boss had all but agreed to take him on for some sort of
    unskilled labor, when, struck by the cadaverous look of the man, he
    told him to bare his arm.  Up went the sleeve of his coat and his
    ragged flannel shirt, exposing a naked arm with the muscles nearly
    gone, and the blue-white transparent skin stretched over sinews and
    the outlines of the bones.  Pitiful beyond words was his effort to
    give a semblance of strength to the biceps which rose faintly to the
    upward movement of the forearm.  But the boss sent him off with an
    oath and a contemptuous laugh; and I watched the fellow as he turned
    down the street, facing the fact of his starving family with a
    despair at his heart which only mortal man can feel and no mortal
    tongue can speak."
Concerning habitat, Mr. Jacob Riis has stated that in New York City, in
the block bounded by Stanton, Houston, Attorney, and Ridge streets, the
size of which is 200 by 300, there is a warren of 2244 human beings.
In the block bounded by Sixty-first and Sixty-second streets, and
Amsterdam and West End avenues, are over four thousand human
creatures,--quite a comfortable New England village to crowd into one
city block.
