"I am a frog," he said apologetically. "How were they to understand?
They were artists, not biologists. They knew the clay of the studio, but
they did not know the clay of which they themselves were made. But this
I will say--they played high. Never was there such a game before, and I
doubt me if there will ever be such a game again.
"Never was lovers' ecstasy like theirs. They had not killed Love with
kisses. They had quickened him with denial. And by denial they drove him
on till he was all aburst with desire. And the flame-winged lute-player
fanned them with his warm wings till they were all but swooning. It was
the very delirium of Love, and it continued undiminished and increasing
through the weeks and months.
"They longed and yearned, with all the fond pangs and sweet delicious
agonies, with an intensity never felt by lovers before nor since.
"And then one day the drowsy gods ceased nodding. They aroused and
looked at the man and woman who had made a mock of them. And the man and
woman looked into each other's eyes one morning and knew that something
was gone. It was the flame-winged one. He had fled, silently, in the
night, from their anchorites' board.
"They looked into each other's eyes and knew that they did not care.
Desire was dead. Do you understand? Desire was dead. And they had never
kissed. Not once had they kissed. Love was gone. They would never yearn
and burn again. For them there was nothing left--no more tremblings and
flutterings and delicious anguishes, no more throbbing and pulsing, and
sighing and song. Desire was dead. It had died in the night, on a couch
cold and unattended; nor had they witnessed its passing. They learned it
for the first time in each other's eyes.
"The gods may not be kind, but they are often merciful. They had twirled
the little ivory ball and swept the stakes from the table. All that
remained was the man and woman gazing into each other's cold eyes.
And then he died. That was the mercy. Within the week Marvin Fiske was
dead--you remember the accident. And in her diary, written at this time,
I long afterward read Mitchell Kennerly's:--
     "'There was not a single hour
       We might have kissed and did not kiss.'"
"Oh, the irony of it!" I cried out.
And Carquinez, in the firelight a veritable Mephistopheles in velvet
jacket, fixed me with his black eyes.
"And they won, you said? The world's judgment! I have told you, and I
know. They won as you are winning, here in your hills."
"But you," I demanded hotly; "you with your orgies of sound and sense,
with your mad cities and madder frolics--bethink you that you win?"
He shook his head slowly. "Because you with your sober bucolic regime,
lose, is no reason that I should win. We never win. Sometimes we think
we win. That is a little pleasantry of the gods."
