This certitude was shown by the whole pack.  Fully a score he could
count, staring hungrily at him or calmly sleeping in the snow.  They
reminded him of children gathered about a spread table and awaiting
permission to begin to eat.  And he was the food they were to eat!  He
wondered how and when the meal would begin.
As he piled wood on the fire he discovered an appreciation of his own
body which he had never felt before.  He watched his moving muscles and
was interested in the cunning mechanism of his fingers.  By the light of
the fire he crooked his fingers slowly and repeatedly now one at a time,
now all together, spreading them wide or making quick gripping movements.
He studied the nail-formation, and prodded the finger-tips, now sharply,
and again softly, gauging the while the nerve-sensations produced.  It
fascinated him, and he grew suddenly fond of this subtle flesh of his
that worked so beautifully and smoothly and delicately.  Then he would
cast a glance of fear at the wolf-circle drawn expectantly about him, and
like a blow the realisation would strike him that this wonderful body of
his, this living flesh, was no more than so much meat, a quest of
ravenous animals, to be torn and slashed by their hungry fangs, to be
sustenance to them as the moose and the rabbit had often been sustenance
to him.
He came out of a doze that was half nightmare, to see the red-hued she-
wolf before him.  She was not more than half a dozen feet away sitting in
the snow and wistfully regarding him.  The two dogs were whimpering and
snarling at his feet, but she took no notice of them.  She was looking at
the man, and for some time he returned her look.  There was nothing
threatening about her.  She looked at him merely with a great
wistfulness, but he knew it to be the wistfulness of an equally great
hunger.  He was the food, and the sight of him excited in her the
gustatory sensations.  Her mouth opened, the saliva drooled forth, and
she licked her chops with the pleasure of anticipation.
A spasm of fear went through him.  He reached hastily for a brand to
throw at her.  But even as he reached, and before his fingers had closed
on the missile, she sprang back into safety; and he knew that she was
used to having things thrown at her.  She had snarled as she sprang away,
baring her white fangs to their roots, all her wistfulness vanishing,
being replaced by a carnivorous malignity that made him shudder.  He
glanced at the hand that held the brand, noticing the cunning delicacy of
the fingers that gripped it, how they adjusted themselves to all the
inequalities of the surface, curling over and under and about the rough
wood, and one little finger, too close to the burning portion of the
brand, sensitively and automatically writhing back from the hurtful heat
to a cooler gripping-place; and in the same instant he seemed to see a
vision of those same sensitive and delicate fingers being crushed and
torn by the white teeth of the she-wolf.  Never had he been so fond of
this body of his as now when his tenure of it was so precarious.
