But Bill shook his head.
"Go on," Henry pleaded, elevating the pot.
Bill shoved his cup aside.  "I'll be ding-dong-danged if I do.  I said I
wouldn't if ary dog turned up missin', an' I won't."
"It's darn good coffee," Henry said enticingly.
But Bill was stubborn, and he ate a dry breakfast washed down with
mumbled curses at One Ear for the trick he had played.
"I'll tie 'em up out of reach of each other to-night," Bill said, as they
took the trail.
They had travelled little more than a hundred yards, when Henry, who was
in front, bent down and picked up something with which his snowshoe had
collided.  It was dark, and he could not see it, but he recognised it by
the touch.  He flung it back, so that it struck the sled and bounced
along until it fetched up on Bill's snowshoes.
"Mebbe you'll need that in your business," Henry said.
Bill uttered an exclamation.  It was all that was left of Spanker--the
stick with which he had been tied.
"They ate 'm hide an' all," Bill announced.  "The stick's as clean as a
whistle.  They've ate the leather offen both ends.  They're damn hungry,
Henry, an' they'll have you an' me guessin' before this trip's over."
Henry laughed defiantly.  "I ain't been trailed this way by wolves
before, but I've gone through a whole lot worse an' kept my health.  Takes
more'n a handful of them pesky critters to do for yours truly, Bill, my
son."
"I don't know, I don't know," Bill muttered ominously.
"Well, you'll know all right when we pull into McGurry."
"I ain't feelin' special enthusiastic," Bill persisted.
"You're off colour, that's what's the matter with you," Henry dogmatised.
"What you need is quinine, an' I'm goin' to dose you up stiff as soon as
we make McGurry."
Bill grunted his disagreement with the diagnosis, and lapsed into
silence.  The day was like all the days.  Light came at nine o'clock.  At
twelve o'clock the southern horizon was warmed by the unseen sun; and
then began the cold grey of afternoon that would merge, three hours
later, into night.
It was just after the sun's futile effort to appear, that Bill slipped
the rifle from under the sled-lashings and said:
"You keep right on, Henry, I'm goin' to see what I can see."
"You'd better stick by the sled," his partner protested.  "You've only
got three cartridges, an' there's no tellin' what might happen."
"Who's croaking now?" Bill demanded triumphantly.
Henry made no reply, and plodded on alone, though often he cast anxious
glances back into the grey solitude where his partner had disappeared.  An
hour later, taking advantage of the cut-offs around which the sled had to
go, Bill arrived.
"They're scattered an' rangin' along wide," he said: "keeping up with us
an' lookin' for game at the same time.  You see, they're sure of us, only
they know they've got to wait to get us.  In the meantime they're willin'
to pick up anything eatable that comes handy."
