"Isn't there one on yours, too?"
"No. I believe a man lived there for years before I came in, and the
nurse used to have these rooms herself. Naturally, the lock was on
the lady's side."
Eden laughed and began to examine the bolt. "It's all stuck up with
paint." Looking about, her eye lighted upon a bronze Buddah which was
one of the nurse's treasures. Taking him by his head, she struck the bolt
a blow with his squatting posteriors. The two doors creaked, sagged, and
swung weakly inward a little way, as if they were too old for such
escapades. Eden tossed the heavy idol into a stuffed chair. "That's
better," she exclaimed exultantly. "So the bolts are always on the lady's
side? What a lot society takes for granted!"
Hedger laughed, sprang up and caught her arms roughly. "Whoever takes you
for granted--Did anybody, ever?"
"Everybody does. That's why I'm here. You are the only one who knows
anything about me. Now I'll have to dress if we're going out for dinner."
He lingered, keeping his hold on her. "But I won't always be the only
one, Eden Bower. I won't be the last."
"No, I suppose not," she said carelessly. "But what does that matter? You
are the first."
As a long, despairing whine broke in the warm stillness, they drew apart.
Caesar, lying on his bed in the dark corner, had lifted his head at this
invasion of sunlight, and realized that the side of his room was broken
open, and his whole world shattered by change. There stood his master and
this woman, laughing at him! The woman was pulling the long black hair of
this mightiest of men, who bowed his head and permitted it.
VI
In time they quarrelled, of course, and about an abstraction,--as young
people often do, as mature people almost never do. Eden came in late one
afternoon. She had been with some of her musical friends to lunch at
Burton Ives' studio, and she began telling Hedger about its splendours.
He listened a moment and then threw down his brushes. "I know exactly
what it's like," he said impatiently. "A very good department-store
conception of a studio. It's one of the show places."
"Well, it's gorgeous, and he said I could bring you to see him. The boys
tell me he's awfully kind about giving people a lift, and you might get
something out of it."
Hedger started up and pushed his canvas out of the way. "What could I
possibly get from Burton Ives? He's almost the worst painter in the
world; the stupidest, I mean."
Eden was annoyed. Burton Ives had been very nice to her and had begged
her to sit for him. "You must admit that he's a very successful one,"
she said coldly.
"Of course he is! Anybody can be successful who will do that sort of
thing. I wouldn't paint his pictures for all the money in New York."
"Well, I saw a lot of them, and I think they are beautiful."
