"Ralph?" said a voice, inquiringly.
"Joan?"
"I was coming up, but I saw your notice."
"Well, come along in, then." He concealed his desire beneath a tone as
grudging as he could make it.
Joan came in, but she was careful to show, by standing upright with
one hand upon the mantelpiece, that she was only there for a definite
purpose, which discharged, she would go.
She was older than Ralph by some three or four years. Her face was round
but worn, and expressed that tolerant but anxious good humor which is
the special attribute of elder sisters in large families. Her pleasant
brown eyes resembled Ralph's, save in expression, for whereas he seemed
to look straightly and keenly at one object, she appeared to be in the
habit of considering everything from many different points of view. This
made her appear his elder by more years than existed in fact between
them. Her gaze rested for a moment or two upon the rook. She then said,
without any preface:
"It's about Charles and Uncle John's offer.... Mother's been talking to
me. She says she can't afford to pay for him after this term. She says
she'll have to ask for an overdraft as it is."
"That's simply not true," said Ralph.
"No. I thought not. But she won't believe me when I say it."
Ralph, as if he could foresee the length of this familiar argument, drew
up a chair for his sister and sat down himself.
"I'm not interrupting?" she inquired.
Ralph shook his head, and for a time they sat silent. The lines curved
themselves in semicircles above their eyes.
"She doesn't understand that one's got to take risks," he observed,
finally.
"I believe mother would take risks if she knew that Charles was the sort
of boy to profit by it."
"He's got brains, hasn't he?" said Ralph. His tone had taken on that
shade of pugnacity which suggested to his sister that some personal
grievance drove him to take the line he did. She wondered what it might
be, but at once recalled her mind, and assented.
"In some ways he's fearfully backward, though, compared with what you
were at his age. And he's difficult at home, too. He makes Molly slave
for him."
Ralph made a sound which belittled this particular argument. It was
plain to Joan that she had struck one of her brother's perverse moods,
and he was going to oppose whatever his mother said. He called her
"she," which was a proof of it. She sighed involuntarily, and the sigh
annoyed Ralph, and he exclaimed with irritation:
"It's pretty hard lines to stick a boy into an office at seventeen!"
"Nobody WANTS to stick him into an office," she said.
She, too, was becoming annoyed. She had spent the whole of the afternoon
discussing wearisome details of education and expense with her
mother, and she had come to her brother for help, encouraged, rather
irrationally, to expect help by the fact that he had been out somewhere,
she didn't know and didn't mean to ask where, all the afternoon.
