But lying in her chair, with one hand behind her head, the other
grasping the knob on the arm, she was clearly following her thoughts
intently. Her education left her abundant time for thinking. Her eyes
were fixed so steadily upon a ball on the rail of the ship that she
would have been startled and annoyed if anything had chanced to obscure
it for a second. She had begun her meditations with a shout of laughter,
caused by the following translation from _Tristan_:
     In shrinking trepidation
       His shame he seems to hide
     While to the king his relation
       He brings the corpse-like Bride.
     Seems it so senseless what I say?
She cried that it did, and threw down the book. Next she had picked up
_Cowper's_ _Letters_, the classic prescribed by her father which had
bored her, so that one sentence chancing to say something about the
smell of broom in his garden, she had thereupon seen the little hall at
Richmond laden with flowers on the day of her mother's funeral, smelling
so strong that now any flower-scent brought back the sickly horrible
sensation; and so from one scene she passed, half-hearing, half-seeing,
to another. She saw her Aunt Lucy arranging flowers in the drawing-room.
"Aunt Lucy," she volunteered, "I don't like the smell of broom; it
reminds me of funerals."
"Nonsense, Rachel," Aunt Lucy replied; "don't say such foolish things,
dear. I always think it a particularly cheerful plant."
Lying in the hot sun her mind was fixed upon the characters of her
aunts, their views, and the way they lived. Indeed this was a subject
that lasted her hundreds of morning walks round Richmond Park, and
blotted out the trees and the people and the deer. Why did they do the
things they did, and what did they feel, and what was it all about?
Again she heard Aunt Lucy talking to Aunt Eleanor. She had been that
morning to take up the character of a servant, "And, of course, at
half-past ten in the morning one expects to find the housemaid brushing
the stairs." How odd! How unspeakably odd! But she could not explain to
herself why suddenly as her aunt spoke the whole system in which they
lived had appeared before her eyes as something quite unfamiliar and
inexplicable, and themselves as chairs or umbrellas dropped about
here and there without any reason. She could only say with her slight
stammer, "Are you f-f-fond of Aunt Eleanor, Aunt Lucy?" to which her
aunt replied, with her nervous hen-like twitter of a laugh, "My dear
child, what questions you do ask!"
"How fond? Very fond!" Rachel pursued.
"I can't say I've ever thought 'how,'" said Miss Vinrace. "If one cares
one doesn't think 'how,' Rachel," which was aimed at the niece who had
never yet "come" to her aunts as cordially as they wished.
"But you know I care for you, don't you, dear, because you're your
mother's daughter, if for no other reason, and there _are_ plenty of
other reasons"--and she leant over and kissed her with some emotion, and
the argument was spilt irretrievably about the place like a bucket of
milk.
