The generals were very much surprised, as any might tell from their
faces.
"It is a retreat," said Joan.
"It has that look," said D'Alencon.
"It certainly has," observed the Bastard and La Hire.
"It was not to be expected," said Louis de Bourbon, "but one can divine
the purpose of it."
"Yes," responded Joan. "Talbot has reflected. His rash brain has cooled.
He thinks to take the bridge of Meung and escape to the other side of
the river. He knows that this leaves his garrison of Beaugency at the
mercy of fortune, to escape our hands if it can; but there is no other
course if he would avoid this battle, and that he also knows. But he
shall not get the bridge. We will see to that."
"Yes," said D'Alencon, "we must follow him, and take care of that
matter. What of Beaugency?"
"Leave Beaugency to me, gentle duke; I will have it in two hours, and at
no cost of blood."
"It is true, Excellency. You will but need to deliver this news there
and receive the surrender."
"Yes. And I will be with you at Meung with the dawn, fetching the
Constable and his fifteen hundred; and when Talbot knows that Beaugency
has fallen it will have an effect upon him."
"By the mass, yes!" cried La Hire. "He will join his Meung garrison to
his army and break for Paris. Then we shall have our bridge force with
us again, along with our Beaugency watchers, and be stronger for our
great day's work by four-and-twenty hundred able soldiers, as was here
promised within the hour. Verily this Englishman is doing our errands
for us and saving us much blood and trouble. Orders, Excellency--give us
orders!"
"They are simple. Let the men rest three hours longer. At one o'clock
the advance-guard will march, under our command, with Pothon of
Saintrailles as second; the second division will follow at two under the
Lieutenant-General. Keep well in the rear of the enemy, and see to it
that you avoid an engagement. I will ride under guard to Beaugency and
make so quick work there that I and the Constable of France will join
you before dawn with his men."
She kept her word. Her guard mounted and we rode off through the
puttering rain, taking with us a captured English officer to confirm
Joan's news. We soon covered the journey and summoned the castle.
Richard Guetin, Talbot's lieutenant, being convinced that he and his
five hundred men were left helpless, conceded that it would be useless
to try to hold out. He could not expect easy terms, yet Joan granted
them nevertheless. His garrison could keep their horses and arms, and
carry away property to the value of a silver mark per man. They could go
whither they pleased, but must not take arms against France again under
ten days.
Before dawn we were with our army again, and with us the Constable
and nearly all his men, for we left only a small garrison in Beaugency
castle. We heard the dull booming of cannon to the front, and knew that
Talbot was beginning his attack on the bridge. But some time before it
was yet light the sound ceased and we heard it no more.
