With the last word he vanished, to our sorrow and disappointment. We
got the men and Father Adolf, and we saw the man die. Nobody cared but
the dog; he mourned and grieved, and licked the dead face, and could
not be comforted. We buried him where he was, and without a coffin,
for he had no money, and no friend but the dog. If we had been an hour
earlier the priest would have been in time to send that poor creature
to heaven, but now he was gone down into the awful fires, to burn
forever. It seemed such a pity that in a world where so many people
have difficulty to put in their time, one little hour could not have
been spared for this poor creature who needed it so much, and to whom
it would have made the difference between eternal joy and eternal
pain. It gave an appalling idea of the value of an hour, and I thought
I could never waste one again without remorse and terror. Seppi was
depressed and grieved, and said it must be so much better to be a dog
and not run such awful risks. We took this one home with us and kept
him for our own. Seppi had a very good thought as we were walking
along, and it cheered us up and made us feel much better. He said the
dog had forgiven the man that had wronged him so, and maybe God would
accept that absolution.
There was a very dull week, now, for Satan did not come, nothing much
was going on, and we boys could not venture to go and see Marget,
because the nights were moonlit and our parents might find us out if
we tried. But we came across Ursula a couple of times taking a walk in
the meadows beyond the river to air the cat, and we learned from her
that things were going well. She had natty new clothes on and bore a
prosperous look. The four groschen a day were arriving without a break,
but were not being spent for food and wine and such things--the cat
attended to all that.
Marget was enduring her forsakenness and isolation fairly well, all
things considered, and was cheerful, by help of Wilhelm Meidling. She
spent an hour or two every night in the jail with her uncle, and had
fattened him up with the cat’s contributions. But she was curious to
know more about Philip Traum, and hoped I would bring him again. Ursula
was curious about him herself, and asked a good many questions about
his uncle. It made the boys laugh, for I had told them the nonsense
Satan had been stuffing her with. She got no satisfaction out of us,
our tongues being tied.
  [Illustration: MARGET WAS CHEERFUL BY HELP OF WILHELM MEIDLING]
Ursula gave us a small item of information: money being plenty now,
she had taken on a servant to help about the house and run errands.
She tried to tell it in a commonplace, matter-of-course way, but she
was so set up by it and so vain of it that her pride in it leaked out
pretty plainly. It was beautiful to see her veiled delight in this
grandeur, poor old thing, but when we heard the name of the servant we
wondered if she had been altogether wise; for although we were young,
and often thoughtless, we had fairly good perception on some matters.
This boy was Gottfried Narr, a dull, good creature, with no harm in him
and nothing against him personally; still, he was under a cloud, and
properly so, for it had not been six months since a social blight had
mildewed the family--his grandmother had been burned as a witch. When
that kind of a malady is in the blood it does not always come out with
just one burning. Just now was not a good time for Ursula and Marget to
be having dealings with a member of such a family, for the witch-terror
had risen higher during the past year than it had ever reached in the
memory of the oldest villagers. The mere mention of a witch was almost
enough to frighten us out of our wits. This was natural enough, because
of late years there were more kinds of witches than there used to be;
in old times it had been only old women, but of late years they were
of all ages--even children of eight and nine; it was getting so that
anybody might turn out to be a familiar of the Devil--age and sex
hadn’t anything to do with it. In our little region we had tried to
extirpate the witches, but the more of them we burned the more of the
breed rose up in their places.
