CHAPTER V
On the fourth day comes the astrologer from his crumbling old tower up
the valley, where he had heard the news, I reckon. He had a private
talk with us, and we told him what we could, for we were mightily in
dread of him. He sat there studying and studying awhile to himself;
then he asked:
“How many ducats did you say?”
“Eleven hundred and seven, sir.”
Then he said, as if he were talking to himself: “It is ver-y singular.
Yes ... very strange. A curious coincidence.” Then he began to ask
questions, and went over the whole ground from the beginning, we
answering. By and by he said: “Eleven hundred and six ducats. It is a
large sum.”
“Seven,” said Seppi, correcting him.
“Oh, seven, was it? Of course a ducat more or less isn’t of
consequence, but you said eleven hundred and six before.”
It would not have been safe for us to say he was mistaken, but we knew
he was. Nikolaus said, “We ask pardon for the mistake, but we meant to
say seven.”
“Oh, it is no matter, lad; it was merely that I noticed the
discrepancy. It is several days, and you cannot be expected to remember
precisely. One is apt to be inexact when there is no particular
circumstance to impress the count upon the memory.”
“But there was one, sir,” said Seppi, eagerly.
“What was it, my son?” asked the astrologer, indifferently.
“First, we all counted the piles of coin, each in turn, and all made
it the same--eleven hundred and six. But I had slipped one out, for
fun, when the count began, and now I slipped it back and said, ‘I think
there is a mistake--there are eleven hundred and seven; let us count
again.’ We did, and of course I was right. They were astonished; then I
told how it came about.”
The astrologer asked us if this was so, and we said it was.
“That settles it,” he said. “I know the thief now. Lads, the money was
stolen.”
  [Illustration: ON THE FOURTH DAY COMES THE ASTROLOGER FROM HIS
                 CRUMBLING OLD TOWER]
Then he went away, leaving us very much troubled, and wondering what
he could mean. In about an hour we found out; for by that time it was
all over the village that Father Peter had been arrested for stealing
a great sum of money from the astrologer. Everybody’s tongue was loose
and going. Many said it was not in Father Peter’s character and must be
a mistake; but the others shook their heads and said misery and want
could drive a suffering man to almost anything. About one detail
there were no differences; all agreed that Father Peter’s account of
how the money came into his hands was just about unbelievable--it
had such an impossible look. They said it might have come into the
astrologer’s hands in some such way, but into Father Peter’s, never!
Our characters began to suffer now. We were Father Peter’s only
witnesses; how much did he probably pay us to back up his fantastic
tale? People talked that kind of talk to us pretty freely and frankly,
and were full of scoffings when we begged them to believe really we had
told only the truth. Our parents were harder on us than any one else.
Our fathers said we were disgracing our families, and they commanded us
to purge ourselves of our lie, and there was no limit to their anger
when we continued to say we had spoken true. Our mothers cried over us
and begged us to give back our bribe and get back our honest names and
save our families from shame, and come out and honorably confess. And
at last we were so worried and harassed that we tried to tell the whole
thing, Satan and all--but no, it wouldn’t come out. We were hoping
and longing all the time that Satan would come and help us out of our
trouble, but there was no sign of him.
