I was in trouble, for how would Marget live? Ursula could not find a
coin in the road every day--perhaps not even a second one. And I was
ashamed, too, for not having been near Marget, and she so in need of
friends; but that was my parents’ fault, not mine, and I couldn’t help
it.
I was walking along the path, feeling very downhearted, when a most
cheery and tingling freshening-up sensation went rippling through me,
and I was too glad for any words, for I knew by that sign that Satan
was by. I had noticed it before. Next moment he was alongside of me
and I was telling him all my trouble and what had been happening to
Marget and her uncle. While we were talking we turned a curve and saw
old Ursula resting in the shade of a tree, and she had a lean stray
kitten in her lap and was petting it. I asked her where she got it, and
she said it came out of the woods and followed her; and she said it
probably hadn’t any mother or any friends and she was going to take it
home and take care of it. Satan said:
“I understand you are very poor. Why do you want to add another mouth
to feed? Why don’t you give it to some rich person?”
Ursula bridled at this and said: “Perhaps you would like to have it.
You must be rich, with your fine clothes and quality airs.” Then she
sniffed and said: “Give it to the rich--the idea! The rich don’t care
for anybody but themselves; it’s only the poor that have feeling for
the poor, and help them. The poor and God. God will provide for this
kitten.”
“What makes you think so?”
Ursula’s eyes snapped with anger. “Because I know it!” she said. “Not a
sparrow falls to the ground without His seeing it.”
“But it falls, just the same. What good is seeing it fall?”
Old Ursula’s jaws worked, but she could not get any word out for the
moment, she was so horrified. When she got her tongue she stormed out,
“Go about your business, you puppy, or I will take a stick to you!”
I could not speak, I was so scared. I knew that with his notions about
the human race Satan would consider it a matter of no consequence to
strike her dead, there being “plenty more”; but my tongue stood still,
I could give her no warning. But nothing happened; Satan remained
tranquil--tranquil and indifferent. I suppose he could not be insulted
by Ursula any more than the king could be insulted by a tumble-bug.
The old woman jumped to her feet when she made her remark, and did it
as briskly as a young girl. It had been many years since she had done
the like of that. That was Satan’s influence; he was a fresh breeze to
the weak and the sick, wherever he came. His presence affected even
the lean kitten, and it skipped to the ground and began to chase a
leaf. This surprised Ursula, and she stood looking at the creature and
nodding her head wonderingly, her anger quite forgotten.
