CHAPTER VI
In a moment we were in a French village. We walked through a great
factory of some sort, where men and women and little children were
toiling in heat and dirt and a fog of dust; and they were clothed in
rags, and drooped at their work, for they were worn and half starved,
and weak and drowsy. Satan said:
“It is some more Moral Sense. The proprietors are rich, and very holy;
but the wage they pay to these poor brothers and sisters of theirs is
only enough to keep them from dropping dead with hunger. The work-hours
are fourteen per day, winter and summer--from six in the morning till
eight at night--little children and all. And they walk to and from
the pigsties which they inhabit--four miles each way, through mud and
slush, rain, snow, sleet, and storm, daily, year in and year out. They
get four hours of sleep. They kennel together, three families in a
room, in unimaginable filth and stench; and disease comes, and they die
off like flies. Have they committed a crime, these mangy things? No.
What have they done, that they are punished so? Nothing at all, except
getting themselves born into your foolish race. You have seen how
they treat a misdoer there in the jail; now you see how they treat the
innocent and the worthy. Is your race logical? Are these ill-smelling
innocents better off than that heretic? Indeed, no; his punishment is
trivial compared with theirs. They broke him on the wheel and smashed
him to rags and pulp after we left, and he is dead now, and free of
your precious race; but these poor slaves here--why, they have been
dying for years, and some of them will not escape from life for years
to come. It is the Moral Sense which teaches the factory proprietors
the difference between right and wrong--you perceive the result. They
think themselves better than dogs. Ah, you are such an illogical,
unreasoning race! And paltry--oh, unspeakably!”
Then he dropped all seriousness and just overstrained himself
making fun of us, and deriding our pride in our warlike deeds, our
great heroes, our imperishable fames, our mighty kings, our ancient
aristocracies, our venerable history--and laughed and laughed till it
was enough to make a person sick to hear him; and finally he sobered a
little and said, “But, after all, it is not all ridiculous; there is a
sort of pathos about it when one remembers how few are your days, how
childish your pomps, and what shadows you are!”
Presently all things vanished suddenly from my sight, and I knew what
it meant. The next moment we were walking along in our village; and
down toward the river I saw the twinkling lights of the Golden Stag.
Then in the dark I heard a joyful cry:
“He’s come again!”
It was Seppi Wohlmeyer. He had felt his blood leap and his spirits
rise in a way that could mean only one thing, and he knew Satan was
near, although it was too dark to see him. He came to us, and we walked
along together, and Seppi poured out his gladness like water. It was
as if he were a lover and had found his sweetheart who had been lost.
Seppi was a smart and animated boy, and had enthusiasm and expression,
and was a contrast to Nikolaus and me. He was full of the last new
mystery, now--the disappearance of Hans Oppert, the village loafer.
People were beginning to be curious about it, he said. He did not say
anxious--curious was the right word, and strong enough. No one had seen
Hans for a couple of days.
