“Eight--thousand!”
“Yes.” He turned to Seppi, and went on as if answering something that
was in Seppi’s mind: “Why, naturally I look like a boy, for that
is what I am. With us what you call time is a spacious thing; it
takes a long stretch of it to grow an angel to full age.” There was
a question in my mind, and he turned to me and answered it, “I am
sixteen thousand years old--counting as you count.” Then he turned to
Nikolaus and said: “No, the Fall did not affect me nor the rest of the
relationship. It was only he that I was named for who ate of the fruit
of the tree and then beguiled the man and the woman with it. We others
are still ignorant of sin; we are not able to commit it; we are without
blemish, and shall abide in that estate always. We--” Two of the little
workmen were quarreling, and in buzzing little bumblebee voices they
were cursing and swearing at each other; now came blows and blood; then
they locked themselves together in a life-and-death struggle. Satan
reached out his hand and crushed the life out of them with his fingers,
threw them away, wiped the red from his fingers on his handkerchief,
and went on talking where he had left off: “We cannot do wrong; neither
have we any disposition to do it, for we do not know what it is.”
It seemed a strange speech, in the circumstances, but we barely
noticed that, we were so shocked and grieved at the wanton murder he
had committed--for murder it was, that was its true name, and it was
without palliation or excuse, for the men had not wronged him in any
way. It made us miserable, for we loved him, and had thought him so
noble and so beautiful and gracious, and had honestly believed he was
an angel; and to have him do this cruel thing--ah, it lowered him so,
and we had had such pride in him. He went right on talking, just as if
nothing had happened, telling about his travels, and the interesting
things he had seen in the big worlds of our solar system and of other
solar systems far away in the remotenesses of space, and about the
customs of the immortals that inhabit them, somehow fascinating us,
enchanting us, charming us in spite of the pitiful scene that was now
under our eyes, for the wives of the little dead men had found the
crushed and shapeless bodies and were crying over them, and sobbing
and lamenting, and a priest was kneeling there with his hands crossed
upon his breast, praying; and crowds and crowds of pitying friends were
massed about them, reverently uncovered, with their bare heads bowed,
and many with the tears running down--a scene which Satan paid no
attention to until the small noise of the weeping and praying began to
annoy him, then he reached out and took the heavy board seat out of our
swing and brought it down and mashed all those people into the earth
just as if they had been flies, and went on talking just the same.
