Once, in a school for girls only ten miles away, the teachers found
that the back of one of the girls was all red and inflamed, and they
were greatly frightened, believing it to be the Devil’s marks. The girl
was scared, and begged them not to denounce her, and said it was only
fleas; but of course it would not do to let the matter rest there.
All the girls were examined, and eleven out of the fifty were badly
marked, the rest less so. A commission was appointed, but the eleven
only cried for their mothers and would not confess. Then they were shut
up, each by herself, in the dark, and put on black bread and water
for ten days and nights; and by that time they were haggard and wild,
and their eyes were dry and they did not cry any more, but only sat
and mumbled, and would not take the food. Then one of them confessed,
and said they had often ridden through the air on broomsticks to the
witches’ Sabbath, and in a bleak place high up in the mountains had
danced and drunk and caroused with several hundred other witches and
the Evil One, and all had conducted themselves in a scandalous way and
had reviled the priests and blasphemed God. That is what she said--not
in narrative form, for she was not able to remember any of the details
without having them called to her mind one after the other; but the
commission did that, for they knew just what questions to ask, they
being all written down for the use of witch-commissioners two centuries
before. They asked, “Did you do so and so?” and she always said yes,
and looked weary and tired, and took no interest in it. And so when
the other ten heard that this one confessed, they confessed, too, and
answered yes to the questions. Then they were burned at the stake all
together, which was just and right; and everybody went from all the
countryside to see it. I went, too; but when I saw that one of them was
a bonny, sweet girl I used to play with, and looked so pitiful there
chained to the stake, and her mother crying over her and devouring her
with kisses and clinging around her neck, and saying, “Oh, my God! oh,
my God!” it was too dreadful, and I went away.
It was bitter cold weather when Gottfried’s grandmother was burned.
It was charged that she had cured bad headaches by kneading the
person’s head and neck with her fingers--as she said--but really by the
Devil’s help, as everybody knew. They were going to examine her, but
she stopped them, and confessed straight off that her power was from
the Devil. So they appointed to burn her next morning, early, in our
market-square. The officer who was to prepare the fire was there first,
and prepared it. She was there next--brought by the constables, who
left her and went to fetch another witch. Her family did not come with
her. They might be reviled, maybe stoned, if the people were excited.
I came, and gave her an apple. She was squatting at the fire, warming
herself and waiting; and her old lips and hands were blue with the
cold. A stranger came next. He was a traveler, passing through; and he
spoke to her gently, and, seeing nobody but me there to hear, said he
was sorry for her. And he asked if what she confessed was true, and she
said no. He looked surprised and still more sorry then, and asked her:
