“Not since he did that brutal thing, you know,” he said.
“What brutal thing?” It was Satan that asked.
“Well, he is always clubbing his dog, which is a good dog, and his
only friend, and is faithful, and loves him, and does no one any
harm; and two days ago he was at it again, just for nothing--just
for pleasure--and the dog was howling and begging, and Theodor and I
begged, too, but he threatened us, and struck the dog again with all
his might and knocked one of his eyes out, and he said to us, ‘There,
I hope you are satisfied now; that’s what you have got for him by your
damned meddling’--and he laughed, the heartless brute.” Seppi’s voice
trembled with pity and anger. I guessed what Satan would say, and he
said it.
“There is that misused word again--that shabby slander. Brutes do not
act like that, but only men.”
“Well, it was inhuman, anyway.”
“No, it wasn’t, Seppi; it was human--quite distinctly human. It is not
pleasant to hear you libel the higher animals by attributing to them
dispositions which they are free from, and which are found nowhere but
in the human heart. None of the higher animals is tainted with the
disease called the Moral Sense. Purify your language, Seppi; drop those
lying phrases out of it.”
He spoke pretty sternly--for him--and I was sorry I hadn’t warned
Seppi to be more particular about the word he used. I knew how he was
feeling. He would not want to offend Satan; he would rather offend all
his kin. There was an uncomfortable silence, but relief soon came,
for that poor dog came along now, with his eye hanging down, and went
straight to Satan, and began to moan and mutter brokenly, and Satan
began to answer in the same way, and it was plain that they were
talking together in the dog language. We all sat down in the grass, in
the moonlight, for the clouds were breaking away now, and Satan took
the dog’s head in his lap and put the eye back in its place, and the
dog was comfortable, and he wagged his tail and licked Satan’s hand,
and looked thankful and said the same; I knew he was saying it, though
I did not understand the words. Then the two talked together a bit, and
Satan said:
“He says his master was drunk.”
“Yes, he was,” said we.
“And an hour later he fell over the precipice there beyond the Cliff
Pasture.”
“We know the place; it is three miles from here.”
“And the dog has been often to the village, begging people to go there,
but he was only driven away and not listened to.”
We remembered it, but hadn’t understood what he wanted.
“He only wanted help for the man who had misused him, and he thought
only of that, and has had no food nor sought any. He has watched by his
master two nights. What do you think of your race? Is heaven reserved
for it, and this dog ruled out, as your teachers tell you? Can your
race add anything to this dog’s stock of morals and magnanimities?” He
spoke to the creature, who jumped up, eager and happy, and apparently
ready for orders and impatient to execute them. “Get some men; go with
the dog--he will show you that carrion; and take a priest along to
arrange about insurance, for death is near.”
