Next day there was a surprise for Jack Halliday. He noticed that
the faces of the nineteen chief citizens and their wives bore that
expression of peaceful and holy happiness again. He could not understand
it, neither was he able to invent any remarks about it that could damage
it or disturb it. And so it was his turn to be dissatisfied with life.
His private guesses at the reasons for the happiness failed in all
instances, upon examination. When he met Mrs. Wilcox and noticed
the placid ecstasy in her face, he said to himself, "Her cat has had
kittens"--and went and asked the cook; it was not so, the cook had
detected the happiness, but did not know the cause. When Halliday
found the duplicate ecstasy in the face of "Shadbelly" Billson (village
nickname), he was sure some neighbour of Billson's had broken his leg,
but inquiry showed that this had not happened. The subdued ecstasy in
Gregory Yates's face could mean but one thing--he was a mother-in-law
short; it was another mistake. "And Pinkerton--Pinkerton--he has
collected ten cents that he thought he was going to lose." And so on,
and so on. In some cases the guesses had to remain in doubt, in the
others they proved distinct errors. In the end Halliday said to
himself, "Anyway it roots up that there's nineteen Hadleyburg families
temporarily in heaven: I don't know how it happened; I only know
Providence is off duty to-day."
An architect and builder from the next State had lately ventured to set
up a small business in this unpromising village, and his sign had now
been hanging out a week. Not a customer yet; he was a discouraged man,
and sorry he had come. But his weather changed suddenly now. First one
and then another chief citizen's wife said to him privately:
"Come to my house Monday week--but say nothing about it for the present.
We think of building."
He got eleven invitations that day. That night he wrote his daughter
and broke off her match with her student. He said she could marry a mile
higher than that.
Pinkerton the banker and two or three other well-to-do men planned
country-seats--but waited. That kind don't count their chickens until
they are hatched.
The Wilsons devised a grand new thing--a fancy-dress ball. They made no
actual promises, but told all their acquaintanceship in confidence that
they were thinking the matter over and thought they should give it--"and
if we do, you will be invited, of course." People were surprised, and
said, one to another, "Why, they are crazy, those poor Wilsons, they
can't afford it." Several among the nineteen said privately to their
husbands, "It is a good idea, we will keep still till their cheap thing
is over, then WE will give one that will make it sick."
The days drifted along, and the bill of future squanderings rose higher
and higher, wilder and wilder, more and more foolish and reckless. It
began to look as if every member of the nineteen would not only spend
his whole forty thousand dollars before receiving-day, but be actually
in debt by the time he got the money. In some cases light-headed people
did not stop with planning to spend, they really spent--on credit. They
bought land, mortgages, farms, speculative stocks, fine clothes, horses,
and various other things, paid down the bonus, and made themselves
liable for the rest--at ten days. Presently the sober second thought
came, and Halliday noticed that a ghastly anxiety was beginning to show
up in a good many faces. Again he was puzzled, and didn't know what
to make of it. "The Wilcox kittens aren't dead, for they weren't born;
nobody's broken a leg; there's no shrinkage in mother-in-laws; NOTHING
has happened--it is an insolvable mystery."
