"NOW what's the matter? What's the trouble?"
Jim could hardly speak, but he says:
"Mars Tom, you ain't jokin', en it's SO?"
"No, I'm not, and it is so."
Jim shivered again, and says:
"Den dat Monday could be de las' day, en dey wouldn't be no las' day
in England, en de dead wouldn't be called. We mustn't go over dah, Mars
Tom. Please git him to turn back; I wants to be whah--"
All of a sudden we see something, and all jumped up, and forgot
everything and begun to gaze. Tom says:
"Ain't that the--" He catched his breath, then says: "It IS, sure as you
live! It's the ocean!"
That made me and Jim catch our breath, too. Then we all stood petrified
but happy, for none of us had ever seen an ocean, or ever expected to.
Tom kept muttering:
"Atlantic Ocean--Atlantic. Land, don't it sound great! And that's
IT--and WE are looking at it--we! Why, it's just too splendid to
believe!"
Then we see a big bank of black smoke; and when we got nearer, it was
a city--and a monster she was, too, with a thick fringe of ships around
one edge; and we wondered if it was New York, and begun to jaw and
dispute about it, and, first we knowed, it slid from under us and went
flying behind, and here we was, out over the very ocean itself, and
going like a cyclone. Then we woke up, I tell you!
We made a break aft and raised a wail, and begun to beg the professor
to turn back and land us, but he jerked out his pistol and motioned us
back, and we went, but nobody will ever know how bad we felt.
The land was gone, all but a little streak, like a snake, away off
on the edge of the water, and down under us was just ocean, ocean,
ocean--millions of miles of it, heaving and pitching and squirming, and
white sprays blowing from the wave-tops, and only a few ships in sight,
wallowing around and laying over, first on one side and then on t'other,
and sticking their bows under and then their sterns; and before long
there warn't no ships at all, and we had the sky and the whole ocean all
to ourselves, and the roomiest place I ever see and the lonesomest.
CHAPTER IV. STORM
AND it got lonesomer and lonesomer. There was the big sky up there,
empty and awful deep; and the ocean down there without a thing on it but
just the waves. All around us was a ring, where the sky and the water
come together; yes, a monstrous big ring it was, and we right in the
dead center of it--plumb in the center. We was racing along like a
prairie fire, but it never made any difference, we couldn't seem to git
past that center no way. I couldn't see that we ever gained an inch
on that ring. It made a body feel creepy, it was so curious and
unaccountable.
