He give us something to eat, and made us go to the other end of the
boat, and he laid down on a locker, where he could boss all the works,
and put his old pepper-box revolver under his head, and said if anybody
come fooling around there trying to land her, he would kill him.
We set scrunched up together, and thought considerable, but didn't say
much--only just a word once in a while when a body had to say something
or bust, we was so scared and worried. The night dragged along slow and
lonesome. We was pretty low down, and the moonshine made everything soft
and pretty, and the farmhouses looked snug and homeful, and we could
hear the farm sounds, and wished we could be down there; but, laws! we
just slipped along over them like a ghost, and never left a track.
Away in the night, when all the sounds was late sounds, and the air had
a late feel, and a late smell, too--about a two-o'clock feel, as near as
I could make out--Tom said the professor was so quiet this time he must
be asleep, and we'd better--
"Better what?" I says in a whisper, and feeling sick all over, because I
knowed what he was thinking about.
"Better slip back there and tie him, and land the ship," he says.
I says: "No, sir! Don' you budge, Tom Sawyer."
And Jim--well, Jim was kind o' gasping, he was so scared. He says:
"Oh, Mars Tom, DON'T! Ef you teches him, we's gone--we's gone sho'!
I ain't gwine anear him, not for nothin' in dis worl'. Mars Tom, he's
plumb crazy."
Tom whispers and says--"That's WHY we've got to do something. If
he wasn't crazy I wouldn't give shucks to be anywhere but here; you
couldn't hire me to get out--now that I've got used to this balloon and
over the scare of being cut loose from the solid ground--if he was in
his right mind. But it's no good politics, sailing around like this with
a person that's out of his head, and says he's going round the world
and then drown us all. We've GOT to do something, I tell you, and do it
before he wakes up, too, or we mayn't ever get another chance. Come!"
But it made us turn cold and creepy just to think of it, and we said we
wouldn't budge. So Tom was for slipping back there by himself to see if
he couldn't get at the steering-gear and land the ship. We begged and
begged him not to, but it warn't no use; so he got down on his hands and
knees, and begun to crawl an inch at a time, we a-holding our breath and
watching. After he got to the middle of the boat he crept slower than
ever, and it did seem like years to me. But at last we see him get to
the professor's head, and sort of raise up soft and look a good spell
in his face and listen. Then we see him begin to inch along again toward
the professor's feet where the steering-buttons was. Well, he got there
all safe, and was reaching slow and steady toward the buttons, but he
knocked down something that made a noise, and we see him slump down flat
an' soft in the bottom, and lay still. The professor stirred, and says,
"What's that?" But everybody kept dead still and quiet, and he begun to
mutter and mumble and nestle, like a person that's going to wake up, and
I thought I was going to die, I was so worried and scared.
