Y.M. I suppose not.
O.M. Then they would do the duty not for the _duty's_ sake, but for
their _own _sake--primarily. The _duty_ was _just the same_, and just
as imperative, when they were clerks, mechanics, raw recruits, but they
wouldn't perform it for that. As clerks and mechanics they had other
ideals, another spirit to satisfy, and they satisfied it. They _had_ to;
it is the law. _Training _is potent. Training toward higher and
higher, and ever higher ideals is worth any man's thought and labor and
diligence.
Y.M. Consider the man who stands by his duty and goes to the stake
rather than be recreant to it.
O.M. It is his make and his training. He has to content the spirit that
is in him, though it cost him his life. Another man, just as sincerely
religious, but of different temperament, will fail of that duty, though
recognizing it as a duty, and grieving to be unequal to it: but he
must content the spirit that is in him--he cannot help it. He could
not perform that duty for duty's _sake_, for that would not content his
spirit, and the contenting of his spirit must be looked to _first_. It
takes precedence of all other duties.
Y.M. Take the case of a clergyman of stainless private morals who votes
for a thief for public office, on his own party's ticket, and against an
honest man on the other ticket.
O.M. He has to content his spirit. He has no public morals; he has no
private ones, where his party's prosperity is at stake. He will always
be true to his make and training.
IV
Training
Young Man. You keep using that word--training. By it do you particularly
mean--
Old Man. Study, instruction, lectures, sermons? That is a part of
it--but not a large part. I mean _all _the outside influences. There are
a million of them. From the cradle to the grave, during all his waking
hours, the human being is under training. In the very first rank of
his trainers stands _association_. It is his human environment which
influences his mind and his feelings, furnishes him his ideals, and sets
him on his road and keeps him in it. If he leave[s] that road he will
find himself shunned by the people whom he most loves and esteems, and
whose approval he most values. He is a chameleon; by the law of his
nature he takes the color of his place of resort. The influences about
him create his preferences, his aversions, his politics, his tastes, his
morals, his religion. He creates none of these things for himself.
He _thinks _he does, but that is because he has not examined into the
matter. You have seen Presbyterians?
Y.M. Many.
O.M. How did they happen to be Presbyterians and not Congregationalists?
And why were the Congregationalists not Baptists, and the Baptists Roman
Catholics, and the Roman Catholics Buddhists, and the Buddhists Quakers,
and the Quakers Episcopalians, and the Episcopalians Millerites and
the Millerites Hindus, and the Hindus Atheists, and the Atheists
Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists Agnostics, and the Agnostics
Methodists, and the Methodists Confucians, and the Confucians
Unitarians, and the Unitarians Mohammedans, and the Mohammedans
Salvation Warriors, and the Salvation Warriors Zoroastrians, and
the Zoroastrians Christian Scientists, and the Christian Scientists
Mormons--and so on?
